<doc id="file32329503" filename="Barack_Obama_-_2004_DNC_Address.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%202004%20DNC%20Address.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
2004 Democratic National Convention Keynote Address
delivered 27 July 2004, Fleet Center, Boston

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

On behalf of the great state of Illinois, crossroads of a nation, Land of Lincoln, let me express
my deepest gratitude for the privilege of addressing this convention.
Tonight is a particular honor for me because, let’s face it, my presence on this stage is pretty
unlikely. My father was a foreign student, born and raised in a small village in Kenya. He grew
up herding goats, went to school in a tin-roof shack. His father -- my grandfather -- was a
cook, a domestic servant to the British.
But my grandfather had larger dreams for his son. Through hard work and perseverance my
father got a scholarship to study in a magical place, America, that shone as a beacon of
freedom and opportunity to so many who had come before.
While studying here, my father met my mother. She was born in a town on the other side of
the world, in Kansas. Her father worked on oil rigs and farms through most of the Depression.
The day after Pearl Harbor my grandfather signed up for duty; joined Patton’s army, marched
across Europe. Back home, my grandmother raised a baby and went to work on a bomber
assembly line. After the war, they studied on the G.I. Bill, bought a house through F.H.A., and
later moved west all the way to Hawaii in search of opportunity.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And they, too, had big dreams for their daughter. A common dream, born of two continents.
My parents shared not only an improbable love, they shared an abiding faith in the
possibilities of this nation. They would give me an African name, Barack, or ”blessed,”
believing that in a tolerant America your name is no barrier to success. They imagined -- They
imagined me going to the best schools in the land, even though they weren’t rich, because in
a generous America you don’t have to be rich to achieve your potential.
They're both passed away now. And yet, I know that on this night they look down on me with
great pride.
They stand here, and I stand here today, grateful for the diversity of my heritage, aware that
my parents’ dreams live on in my two precious daughters. I stand here knowing that my story
is part of the larger American story, that I owe a debt to all of those who came before me,
and that, in no other country on earth, is my story even possible.
Tonight, we gather to affirm the greatness of our Nation -- not because of the height of our
skyscrapers, or the power of our military, or the size of our economy. Our pride is based on a
very simple premise, summed up in a declaration made over two hundred years ago:
We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are
endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, that among these are Life,
Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.
That is the true genius of America, a faith -- a faith in simple dreams, an insistence on small
miracles; that we can tuck in our children at night and know that they are fed and clothed and
safe from harm; that we can say what we think, write what we think, without hearing a
sudden knock on the door; that we can have an idea and start our own business without
paying a bribe; that we can participate in the political process without fear of retribution, and
that our votes will be counted -- at least most of the time.
This year, in this election we are called to reaffirm our values and our commitments, to hold
them against a hard reality and see how we're measuring up to the legacy of our forbearers
and the promise of future generations.
And fellow Americans, Democrats, Republicans, Independents, I say to you tonight: We have
more work to do -- more work to do for the workers I met in Galesburg, Illinois, who are
losing their union jobs at the Maytag plant that’s moving to Mexico, and now are having to
compete with their own children for jobs that pay seven bucks an hour; more to do for the

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
father that I met who was losing his job and choking back the tears, wondering how he would
pay 4500 dollars a month for the drugs his son needs without the health benefits that he
counted on; more to do for the young woman in East St. Louis, and thousands more like her,
who has the grades, has the drive, has the will, but doesn’t have the money to go to college.
Now, don’t get me wrong. The people I meet -- in small towns and big cities, in diners and
office parks -- they don’t expect government to solve all their problems. They know they have
to work hard to get ahead, and they want to. Go into the collar counties around Chicago, and
people will tell you they don’t want their tax money wasted, by a welfare agency or by the
Pentagon. Go in -- Go into any inner city neighborhood, and folks will tell you that
government alone can’t teach our kids to learn; they know that parents have to teach, that
children can’t achieve unless we raise their expectations and turn off the television sets and
eradicate the slander that says a black youth with a book is acting white. They know those
things.
People don’t expect -- People don't expect government to solve all their problems. But they
sense, deep in their bones, that with just a slight change in priorities, we can make sure that
every child in America has a decent shot at life, and that the doors of opportunity remain open
to all.
They know we can do better. And they want that choice.
In this election, we offer that choice. Our Party has chosen a man to lead us who embodies
the best this country has to offer. And that man is John Kerry.
John Kerry understands the ideals of community, faith, and service because they’ve defined
his life. From his heroic service to Vietnam, to his years as a prosecutor and lieutenant
governor, through two decades in the United States Senate, he's devoted himself to this
country. Again and again, we’ve seen him make tough choices when easier ones were
available.
His values and his record affirm what is best in us. John Kerry believes in an America where
hard work is rewarded; so instead of offering tax breaks to companies shipping jobs overseas,
he offers them to companies creating jobs here at home.
John Kerry believes in an America where all Americans can afford the same health coverage
our politicians in Washington have for themselves.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
John Kerry believes in energy independence, so we aren’t held hostage to the profits of oil
companies, or the sabotage of foreign oil fields.
John Kerry believes in the Constitutional freedoms that have made our country the envy of
the world, and he will never sacrifice our basic liberties, nor use faith as a wedge to divide us.
And John Kerry believes that in a dangerous world war must be an option sometimes, but it
should never be the first option.
You know, a while back -- awhile back I met a young man named Shamus in a V.F.W. Hall in
East Moline, Illinois. He was a good-looking kid -- six two, six three, clear eyed, with an easy
smile. He told me he’d joined the Marines and was heading to Iraq the following week. And as
I listened to him explain why he’d enlisted, the absolute faith he had in our country and its
leaders, his devotion to duty and service, I thought this young man was all that any of us
might ever hope for in a child.
But then I asked myself, "Are we serving Shamus as well as he is serving us?"
I thought of the 900 men and women -- sons and daughters, husbands and wives, friends and
neighbors, who won’t be returning to their own hometowns. I thought of the families I’ve met
who were struggling to get by without a loved one’s full income, or whose loved ones had
returned with a limb missing or nerves shattered, but still lacked long-term health benefits
because they were Reservists.
When we send our young men and women into harm’s way, we have a solemn obligation not
to fudge the numbers or shade the truth about why they’re going, to care for their families
while they’re gone, to tend to the soldiers upon their return, and to never ever go to war
without enough troops to win the war, secure the peace, and earn the respect of the world.
Now -- Now let me be clear. Let me be clear. We have real enemies in the world. These
enemies must be found. They must be pursued. And they must be defeated. John Kerry knows
this. And just as Lieutenant Kerry did not hesitate to risk his life to protect the men who
served with him in Vietnam, President Kerry will not hesitate one moment to use our military
might to keep America safe and secure.
John Kerry believes in America. And he knows that it’s not enough for just some of us to
prosper -- for alongside our famous individualism, there’s another ingredient in the American
saga, a belief that we’re all connected as one people. If there is a child on the south side of
Chicago who can’t read, that matters to me, even if it’s not my child.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
If there is a senior citizen somewhere who can’t pay for their prescription drugs, and having to
choose between medicine and the rent, that makes my life poorer, even if it’s not my
grandparent. If there’s an Arab American family being rounded up without benefit of an
attorney or due process, that threatens my civil liberties.
It is that fundamental belief -- It is that fundamental belief: I am my brother’s keeper. I am
my sister’s keeper that makes this country work. It’s what allows us to pursue our individual
dreams and yet still come together as one American family.
E pluribus unum: "Out of many, one."
Now even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us -- the spin masters,
the negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of "anything goes." Well, I say to them
tonight, there is not a liberal America and a conservative America -- there is the United States
of America. There is not a Black America and a White America and Latino America and Asian
America -- there’s the United States of America.
The pundits, the pundits like to slice-and-dice our country into red states and blue states; red
states for Republicans, blue states for Democrats. But I’ve got news for them, too. We
worship an awesome God in the blue states, and we don’t like federal agents poking around in
our libraries in the red states. We coach Little League in the blue states and yes, we’ve got
some gay friends in the red states. There are patriots who opposed the war in Iraq and there
are patriots who supported the war in Iraq. We are one people, all of us pledging allegiance to
the stars and stripes, all of us defending the United States of America.
In the end -- In the end -- In the end, that’s what this election is about. Do we participate in a
politics of cynicism or do we participate in a politics of hope?
John Kerry calls on us to hope. John Edwards calls on us to hope.
I’m not talking about blind optimism here -- the almost willful ignorance that thinks
unemployment will go away if we just don’t think about it, or the health care crisis will solve
itself if we just ignore it. That’s not what I’m talking about. I’m talking about something more
substantial. It’s the hope of slaves sitting around a fire singing freedom songs; the hope of
immigrants setting out for distant shores; the hope of a young naval lieutenant bravely
patrolling the Mekong Delta; the hope of a millworker’s son who dares to defy the odds; the
hope of a skinny kid with a funny name who believes that America has a place for him, too.
Hope -- Hope in the face of difficulty. Hope in the face of uncertainty. The audacity of hope!

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
In the end, that is God’s greatest gift to us, the bedrock of this nation. A belief in things not
seen. A belief that there are better days ahead.
I believe that we can give our middle class relief and provide working families with a road to
opportunity.
I believe we can provide jobs to the jobless, homes to the homeless, and reclaim young
people in cities across America from violence and despair.
I believe that we have a righteous wind at our backs and that as we stand on the crossroads
of history, we can make the right choices, and meet the challenges that face us.
America! Tonight, if you feel the same energy that I do, if you feel the same urgency that I
do, if you feel the same passion that I do, if you feel the same hopefulness that I do -- if we
do what we must do, then I have no doubt that all across the country, from Florida to Oregon,
from Washington to Maine, the people will rise up in November, and John Kerry will be sworn
in as President, and John Edwards will be sworn in as Vice President, and this country will
reclaim its promise, and out of this long political darkness a brighter day will come.
Thank you very much everybody.
God bless you.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/7/21

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329765" filename="Barack_Obama_-_2010_Budget_to_Congress.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%202010%20Budget%20to%20Congress.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on 2010 Budget Sent to Congress

Delivered 1 February 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning, everybody. This morning, I sent a budget to Congress for the coming year. It's
a budget that reflects the serious challenges facing the country. We're at war. Our economy
has lost 7 million jobs over the last two years. And our government is deeply in debt after
what can only be described as a decade of profligacy.
The fact is, 10 years ago, we had a budget surplus of more than $200 billion, with projected
surpluses stretching out toward the horizon. Yet over the course of the past 10 years, the
previous administration and previous Congresses created an expensive new drug program,
passed massive tax cuts for the wealthy, and funded two wars without paying for any of it ­­
all of which was compounded by recession and by rising health care costs. As a result, when I
first walked through the door, the deficit stood at $1.3 trillion, with projected deficits of $8
trillion over the next decade.
If we had taken office during ordinary times, we would have started bringing down these
deficits immediately. But one year ago, our country was in crisis: We were losing nearly
700,000 jobs each month, the economy was in a free fall, and the financial system was near
collapse. Many feared another Great Depression. So we initiated a rescue, and that rescue
was not without significant cost; it added to the deficit as well.
One year later, because of the steps we've taken, we're in a very different place. But we can't
simply move beyond this crisis; we have to address the irresponsibility that led to it. And that
includes the failure to rein in spending, as well a reliance on borrowing ­­ from Wall Street to
Washington to Main Street ­­ to fuel our growth.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's what we have to change. We have to do what families across America are doing: Save
where we can so that we can afford what we need.
Now, I think it's very important to understand: We won't be able to bring down this deficit
overnight, given that the recovery is still taking hold and families across the country still need
help. We will continue, for example, to do what it takes to create jobs. That's reflected in my
budget; it's essential. The budget includes new tax cuts for people who invest in small
businesses, tax credits for small businesses that hire new workers, investments that will
create jobs repairing roads and bridges, and tax breaks for retrofitting homes to save energy.
We also continue to lay a new foundation for lasting growth, which is essential as well. Just as
it would be a terrible mistake to borrow against our children's future to pay our way today, it
would be equally wrong to neglect their future by failing to invest in areas that will determine
our economic success in this new century.
That's why we build on the largest investment in clean energy in history, as well as increase
investment in scientific research, so that we are fostering the industries and jobs of the future
right here in America.
That's why I've proposed a more than 6 percent increase in funding for the Education
Department. And this funding is tied to reforms that raise student achievement, inspire
students to excel in math and science, and turn around failing schools which consign too many
young people to a lesser future ­­ because in the 21st century there is no better anti­poverty
program than a world­class education.
And that's why we eliminate a wasteful subsidy to banks that lend to college students, and
use that money to revitalize community colleges and make college more affordable. This will
help us reach the goal I've set for America: By 2020 we will once again have the highest
proportion of college graduates in the world.
These are the investments we must make to create jobs and opportunity now and in the
future. And in a departure from the way business had been done in Washington, we actually
show how we pay for these investments while putting our country on a more fiscally
sustainable path.
I've proposed a freeze in government spending for three years. This won't apply to the
benefits folks get through Social Security, Medicaid, or Medicare. And it won't apply to our
national security ­­ including benefits for veterans. But it will apply to all other discretionary
government programs. And we're not simply photocopying last year's budget; freezing
spending does not mean we won't cut what doesn't work to pay for what does.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We have gone through every department's spending line by line, item by item, looking for
inefficiency, duplication, and programs that have outlived their usefulness. That's how we
freeze discretionary spending. Last year, we found $17 billion in cuts. This year, we've already
found $20 billion.
Now, some of these cuts are just common sense. For example, we cut $115 million from a
program that pays states to clean up mines that have already been cleaned up. We're also
cutting a Forest Service economic development program that strayed so far from any mission
that it funded a music festival. And we're saving $20 million by stopping the refurbishment of
a Department of Energy science center that the Department of Energy does not want to
refurbish.
Other cuts, though, are more painful, because the goals of the underlying programs are
worthy. We eliminate one program that provides grants to do environmental clean up of
abandoned buildings. That's a mission I support, but there are other sources of private and
public funds to achieve it. We also eliminated a $120 million program that allows folks to get
their Earned Income Tax Credit in advance. I am a big supporter of the Earned Income Tax
Credit. The problem is 80 percent of people who got this advance didn't comply with one or
more of the program's requirements.
So I'm willing to reduce waste in programs I care about, and I'm asking members of Congress
to do the same. I'm asking Republicans and Democrats alike to take a fresh look at programs
they've supported in the past to see what's working and what's not, and trim back
accordingly.
Like any business, we're also looking for ways to get more bang for our buck, by promoting
innovation and cutting red tape. For example, we consolidate 38 separate education programs
into 11. And last fall, we launched the "SAVE Awards" to solicit ideas from federal employees
about how make government more efficient and more effective. I'm proud to say that a
number of these ideas ­­ like allowing Social Security appointments to be made online ­­
made it into our budget.
I also want to note even though the Department of Defense is exempt from the budget freeze,
it's not exempt from budget common sense. It's not exempt from looking for savings. We
save money by eliminating unnecessary defense programs that do nothing to keep us
safe. One example is the $2.5 billion that we're spending to build C­17 transport aircraft. Four
years ago, the Defense Department decided to cease production because it had acquired the
number requested ­­ 180. Yet every year since, Congress had provided unrequested money
for more C­17s that the Pentagon doesn't want or need. It's waste, pure and simple.
And there are other steps we're taking to rein in deficits. I've proposed a fee on big banks to
pay back taxpayers for the bailout. We're reforming the way contracts are awarded, to save
taxpayers billions of dollars.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And while we extend middle­class tax cuts in this budget, we will not continue costly tax cuts
for oil companies, investment fund managers, and those making over $250,000 a year. We
just can't afford it.
Finally, changing spending­as­usual depends on changing politics­as­usual. And that's why
I've proposed a bipartisan fiscal commission: a panel of Democrats and Republicans who
would hammer out concrete deficit reduction proposals over the medium and long term, but
would come up with those answers by a certain deadline. I should point out, by the way, that
is an idea that had strong bipartisan support, was originally introduced by Senators Gregg on
the Republican side and Conrad on the Democratic side; had a lot of Republican cosponsors to
the idea. I hope that, despite the fact that it got voted down in the Senate, that both the
Republican Leader Mitch McConnell and the Republican Leader in the House John Boehner go
ahead and fully embrace what has been a bipartisan idea to get our arms around this budget.
That's also why we're restoring pay­as­you­go: a simple rule that says Congress can't spend a
dime without cutting a dime elsewhere. This rule helped lead to the budget surpluses of the
1990s, and it's one of the most important steps we can take to restore fiscal discipline in
Washington.
You can read more about the budget at budget.gov ­­ very easy to remember ­­
budget.gov. But the bottom line is this: We simply cannot continue to spend as if deficits don't
have consequences; as if waste doesn't matter; as if the hard­earned tax dollars of the
American people can be treated like Monopoly money; as if we can ignore this challenge for
another generation. We can't.
In order to meet this challenge, I welcome any idea, from Democrats and Republicans. What I
will not welcome ­­ what I reject ­­ is the same old grandstanding when the cameras are on,
and the same irresponsible budget policies when the cameras are off. It's time to hold
Washington to the same standards families and businesses hold themselves. It's time to save
what we can, spend what we must, and live within our means once again.
Thanks very much.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329716" filename="Barack_Obama_-_911_Pentagon_Memorial_2009.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20911%20Pentagon%20Memorial%202009.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
9/11 Pentagon Memorial Speech
delivered 11 September 2009, Arlington, Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen and members of the Armed Forces, fellow Americans, family
and friends of those that we lost this day: Michelle and I are deeply humbled to be with you.
Eight Septembers have come and gone. Nearly 3,000 days have passed -- almost one for
each of those taken from us. But no turning of the seasons can diminish the pain and the loss
of that day. No passage of time and no dark skies can ever dull the meaning of this moment.
So on this solemn day, at this sacred hour, once more we pause. Once more we pray -- as a
nation and as a people; in city streets where our two towers were turned to ashes and dust; in
a quiet field where a plane fell from the sky; and here, where a single stone of this building is
still blackened by the fires.
We remember with reverence the lives we lost. We read their names. We press their photos to
our hearts. And on this day that marks their death, we recall the beauty and meaning of their
lives; men and women and children of every color and every creed, from across our nation
and from more than 100 others. They were innocent. Harming no one, they went about their
daily lives. Gone in a horrible instant, they now "dwell in the House of the Lord forever."

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain.

Updated 12/29/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We honor all those who gave their lives so that others might live, and all the survivors who
battled burns and wounds and helped each other rebuild their lives; men and women who
gave life to that most simple of rules: I am my brother's keeper; I am my sister's keeper.
We pay tribute to the service of a new generation -- young Americans raised in a time of
peace and plenty who saw their nation in its hour of need and said, "I choose to serve"; "I will
do my part." And once more we grieve. For you and your families, no words can ease the ache
of your heart. No deeds can fill the empty places in your homes. But on this day and all that
follow, you may find solace in the memory of those you loved, and know that you have the
unending support of the American people.
Scripture teaches us a hard truth. The mountains may fall and the earth may give way; the
flesh and the heart may fail. But after all our suffering, God and grace will "restore you and
make you strong, firm and steadfast." So it is -- so it has been for these families. So it must
be for our nation.
Let us renew our resolve against those who perpetrated this barbaric act and who plot against
us still. In defense of our nation we will never waver; in pursuit of al Qaeda and its extremist
allies, we will never falter.
Let us renew our commitment to all those who serve in our defense -- our courageous men
and women in uniform and their families and all those who protect us here at home. Mindful
that the work of protecting America is never finished, we will do everything in our power to
keep America safe.
Let us renew the true spirit of that day. Not the human capacity for evil, but the human
capacity for good. Not the desire to destroy, but the impulse to save, and to serve, and to
build. On this first National Day of Service and Remembrance, we can summon once more
that ordinary goodness of America -- to serve our communities, to strengthen our country,
and to better our world.
Most of all, on a day when others sought to sap our confidence, let us renew our common
purpose. Let us remember how we came together as one nation, as one people, as Americans,
united not only in our grief, but in our resolve to stand with one another, to stand up for the
country we all love.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain.

Updated 12/29/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
This may be the greatest lesson of this day, the strongest rebuke to those who attacked us,
the highest tribute to those taken from us -- that such sense of purpose need not be a fleeting
moment. It can be a lasting virtue.
For through their own lives -- and through you, the loved ones that they left behind -- the
men and women who lost their lives eight years ago today leave a legacy that still shines
brightly in the darkness, and that calls on all of us to be strong and firm and united. That is
our calling today and in all the Septembers still to come.
May God bless you and comfort you. And may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain.

Updated 12/29/21

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329857" filename="Barack_Obama_-_911_Pentagon_Memorial_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20911%20Pentagon%20Memorial%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
9/11 Pentagon Memorial Address

Delivered 11 September 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Secretary Gates, Admiral Mullen and members of the Armed Forces, my fellow Americans; most of all, to
you -- survivors who still carry the scars of tragedy and destruction; to the families who carry in your hearts
the memory of the loved ones you lost here:
For our nation, this is a day of remembrance, a day of reflection, and -- with God’s grace -- a day of unity
and renewal.
We gather to remember, at this sacred hour, on hallowed ground -- at places where we feel such grief and
where our healing goes on. We gather here, at the Pentagon, where the names of the lost are forever
etched in stone. We gather in a gentle Pennsylvania field, where a plane went down and a “tower of voices”
will rise and echo through the ages. And we gather where the Twin Towers fell, a site where the work goes
on so that next year, on the 10th anniversary, the waters will flow in steady tribute to the nearly 3,000
innocent lives.
On this day, it’s perhaps natural to focus on the images of that awful morning -- images that are seared into
our souls. It’s tempting to dwell on the final moments of the loved ones whose lives were taken so cruelly.
Yet these memorials, and your presence today, remind us to remember the fullness of their time on Earth.
They were fathers and mothers, raising their families; brothers and sisters, pursuing their dreams; sons and
daughters, their whole lives before them. They were civilians and service members. Some never saw the
danger coming; others saw the peril and rushed to save others -- up those stairwells, into the flames, into
the cockpit.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
They were white and black and brown -- men and women and some children made up of all races, many
faiths. They were Americans and people from far corners of the world. And they were snatched from us
senselessly and much too soon -- but they lived well, and they live on in you.
Nine years have now passed. In that time, you have shed more tears than we will ever know. And though it
must seem some days as though the world has moved on to other things, I say to you today that your loved
ones endure in the heart of our nation, now and forever.
Our remembrance today also requires a certain reflection. As a nation, and as individuals, we must ask
ourselves how best to honor them -- those who died, those who sacrificed. How do we preserve their
legacy -- not just on this day, but every day?
We need not look far for our answer. The perpetrators of this evil act didn’t simply attack America; they
attacked the very idea of America itself -- all that we stand for and represent in the world. And so the
highest honor we can pay those we lost, indeed our greatest weapon in this ongoing war, is to do what our
adversaries fear the most -- to stay true to who we are, as Americans; to renew our sense of common
purpose; to say that we define the character of our country, and we will not let the acts of some small band
of murderers who slaughter the innocent and cower in caves distort who we are.
They doubted our will, but as Americans we persevere. Today, in Afghanistan and beyond, we have gone
on the offensive and struck major blows against al Qaeda and its allies. We will do what is necessary to
protect our country, and we honor all those who serve to keep us safe.
They may seek to strike fear in us, but they are no match for our resilience. We do not succumb to fear, nor
will we squander the optimism that has always defined us as a people. On a day when others sought to
destroy, we have chosen to build, with a National Day of Service and Remembrance that summons the
inherent goodness of the American people.
They may seek to exploit our freedoms, but we will not sacrifice the liberties we cherish or hunker down
behind walls of suspicion and mistrust. They may wish to drive us apart, but we will not give in to their
hatred and prejudice. For Scripture teaches us to “get rid of all bitterness, rage and anger, brawling and
slander, along with every form of malice.”
They may seek to spark conflict between different faiths, but as Americans we are not -- and never will be -at war with Islam. It was not a religion that attacked us that September day -- it was al Qaeda, a sorry band
of men which perverts religion. And just as we condemn intolerance and extremism abroad, so will we stay
true to our traditions here at home as a diverse and tolerant nation. We champion the rights of every
American, including the right to worship as one chooses -- as service members and civilians from many
faiths do just steps from here, at the very spot where the terrorists struck this building.
Those who attacked us sought to demoralize us, divide us, to deprive us of the very unity, the very ideals,
that make America America -- those qualities that have made us a beacon of freedom and hope to billions
around the world. Today we declare once more we will never hand them that victory. As Americans, we will
keep alive the virtues and values that make us who we are and who we must always be.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
For our cause is just. Our spirit is strong. Our resolve is unwavering. Like generations before us, let us
come together today and all days to affirm certain inalienable rights, to affirm life and liberty and the pursuit
of happiness. On this day and the days to come, we choose to stay true to our best selves -- as one nation,
under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
This is how we choose to honor the fallen -- your families, your friends, your fellow service members. This
is how we will keep alive the legacy of these proud and patriotic Americans. This is how we will prevail in
this great test of our time. This is how we will preserve and protect the country that we love and pass it -safer and stronger -- to future generations.
May God bless you and your families, and may God continue to bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329896" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Address_on_Libya.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Address%20on%20Libya.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Libya
Delivered 18 March 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody.
I want to take this opportunity to update the American people about the situation in Libya. Over the last
several weeks, the world has watched events unfold in Libya with hope and alarm. Last month, protesters
took to the streets across the country to demand their universal rights, and a government that is accountable
to them and responsive to their aspirations. But they were met with an iron fist.
Within days, whole parts of the country declared their independence from a brutal regime, and members of
the government serving in Libya and abroad chose to align themselves with the forces of change.
Moammar Qaddafi clearly lost the confidence of his own people and the legitimacy to lead.
Instead of respecting the rights of his own people, Qaddafi chose the path of brutal suppression. Innocent
civilians were beaten, imprisoned, and in some cases killed. Peaceful protests were forcefully put down.
Hospitals were attacked and patients disappeared. A campaign of intimidation and repression began.
In the face of this injustice, the United States and the international community moved swiftly. Sanctions
were put in place by the United States and our allies and partners. The U.N. Security Council imposed
further sanctions, an arms embargo, and the specter of international accountability for Qaddafi and those
around him. Humanitarian assistance was positioned on Libya’s borders, and those displaced by the
violence received our help. Ample warning was given that Qaddafi needed to stop his campaign of
repression, or be held accountable. The Arab League and the European Union joined us in calling for an
end to violence.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Once again, Qaddafi chose to ignore the will of his people and the international community. Instead, he
launched a military campaign against his own people. And there should be no doubt about his intentions,
because he himself has made them clear.
For decades, he has demonstrated a willingness to use brute force through his sponsorship of terrorism
against the American people as well as others, and through the killings that he has carried out within his
own borders. And just yesterday, speaking of the city of Benghazi -- a city of roughly 700,000 people -- he
threatened, and I quote: “We will have no mercy and no pity” -- no mercy on his own citizens.
Now, here is why this matters to us. Left unchecked, we have every reason to believe that Qaddafi would
commit atrocities against his people. Many thousands could die. A humanitarian crisis would ensue. The
entire region could be destabilized, endangering many of our allies and partners. The calls of the Libyan
people for help would go unanswered. The democratic values that we stand for would be overrun.
Moreover, the words of the international community would be rendered hollow.
And that’s why the United States has worked with our allies and partners to shape a strong international
response at the United Nations. Our focus has been clear: protecting innocent civilians within Libya, and
holding the Qaddafi regime accountable.
Yesterday, in response to a call for action by the Libyan people and the Arab League, the U.N. Security
Council passed a strong resolution that demands an end to the violence against citizens. It authorizes the
use of force with an explicit commitment to pursue all necessary measures to stop the killing, to include the
enforcement of a no-fly zone over Libya. It also strengthens our sanctions and the enforcement of an arms
embargo against the Qaddafi regime.
Now, once more, Moammar Qaddafi has a choice. The resolution that passed lays out very clear conditions
that must be met. The United States, the United Kingdom, France, and Arab states agree that a cease-fire
must be implemented immediately. That means all attacks against civilians must stop. Qaddafi must stop
his troops from advancing on Benghazi, pull them back from Ajdabiya, Misrata, and Zawiya, and establish
water, electricity and gas supplies to all areas. Humanitarian assistance must be allowed to reach the
people of Libya.
Let me be clear, these terms are not negotiable. These terms are not subject to negotiation. If Qaddafi
does not comply with the resolution, the international community will impose consequences, and the
resolution will be enforced through military action.
In this effort, the United States is prepared to act as part of an international coalition. American leadership
is essential, but that does not mean acting alone -– it means shaping the conditions for the international
community to act together.
That’s why I have directed Secretary Gates and our military to coordinate their planning, and tomorrow
Secretary Clinton will travel to Paris for a meeting with our European allies and Arab partners about the
enforcement of Resolution 1973. We will provide the unique capabilities that we can bring to bear to stop
the violence against civilians, including enabling our European allies and Arab partners to effectively enforce
a no fly zone. I have no doubt that the men and women of our military are capable of carrying out this
mission. Once more, they have the thanks of a grateful nation and the admiration of the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
I also want to be clear about what we will not be doing. The United States is not going to deploy ground
troops into Libya. And we are not going to use force to go beyond a well-defined goal --- specifically, the
protection of civilians in Libya. In the coming weeks, we will continue to help the Libyan people with
humanitarian and economic assistance so that they can fulfill their aspirations peacefully.
Now, the United States did not seek this outcome. Our decisions have been driven by Qaddafi’s refusal to
respect the rights of his people, and the potential for mass murder of innocent civilians. It is not an action
that we will pursue alone. Indeed, our British and French allies, and members of the Arab League, have
already committed to take a leadership role in the enforcement of this resolution, just as they were
instrumental in pursuing it. We are coordinating closely with them. And this is precisely how the
international community should work, as more nations bear both the responsibility and the cost of enforcing
international law.
This is just one more chapter in the change that is unfolding across the Middle East and North Africa. From
the beginning of these protests, we have made it clear that we are opposed to violence. We have made
clear our support for a set of universal values, and our support for the political and economic change that
the people of the region deserve. But I want to be clear: the change in the region will not and cannot be
imposed by the United States or any foreign power; ultimately, it will be driven by the people of the Arab
World. It is their right and their responsibility to determine their own destiny.
Let me close by saying that there is no decision I face as your Commander in Chief that I consider as
carefully as the decision to ask our men and women to use military force. Particularly at a time when our
military is fighting in Afghanistan and winding down our activities in Iraq, that decision is only made more
difficult. But the United States of America will not stand idly by in the face of actions that undermine global
peace and security. So I have taken this decision with the confidence that action is necessary, and that we
will not be acting alone. Our goal is focused, our cause is just, and our coalition is strong. Thank you very
much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329954" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Afghanistan_Troop_Reduction.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Afghanistan%20Troop%20Reduction.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Afghanistan Troop Reduction Address to the Nation

Delivered 22 June 2011, White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good evening. Nearly 10 years ago, America suffered the worst attack on our shores since
Pearl Harbor. This mass murder was planned by Osama bin Laden and his al Qaeda network in
Afghanistan, and signaled a new threat to our security -- one in which the targets were no
longer soldiers on a battlefield, but innocent men, women and children going about their daily
lives.
In the days that followed, our nation was united as we struck at al Qaeda and routed the
Taliban in Afghanistan. Then, our focus shifted. A second war was launched in Iraq, and we
spent enormous blood and treasure to support a new government there. By the time I took
office, the war in Afghanistan had entered its seventh year. But al Qaeda’s leaders had
escaped into Pakistan and were plotting new attacks, while the Taliban had regrouped and
gone on the offensive. Without a new strategy and decisive action, our military commanders
warned that we could face a resurgent al Qaeda and a Taliban taking over large parts of
Afghanistan.
For this reason, in one of the most difficult decisions that I’ve made as President, I ordered an
additional 30,000 American troops into Afghanistan. When I announced this surge at West
Point, we set clear objectives: to refocus on al Qaeda, to reverse the Taliban’s momentum,
and train Afghan security forces to defend their own country. I also made it clear that our
commitment would not be open-ended, and that we would begin to draw down our forces this
July.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Tonight, I can tell you that we are fulfilling that commitment. Thanks to our extraordinary
men and women in uniform, our civilian personnel, and our many coalition partners, we are
meeting our goals. As a result, starting next month, we will be able to remove 10,000 of our
troops from Afghanistan by the end of this year, and we will bring home a total of 33,000
troops by next summer, fully recovering the surge I announced at West Point. After this initial
reduction, our troops will continue coming home at a steady pace as Afghan security forces
move into the lead. Our mission will change from combat to support. By 2014, this process
of transition will be complete, and the Afghan people will be responsible for their own security.
We’re starting this drawdown from a position of strength. Al Qaeda is under more pressure
than at any time since 9/11. Together with the Pakistanis, we have taken out more than half
of al Qaeda’s leadership. And thanks to our intelligence professionals and Special Forces, we
killed Osama bin Laden, the only leader that al Qaeda had ever known. This was a victory for
all who have served since 9/11. One soldier summed it up well. “The message,” he said, “is
we don’t forget. You will be held accountable, no matter how long it takes.”
The information that we recovered from bin Laden’s compound shows al Qaeda under
enormous strain. Bin Laden expressed concern that al Qaeda had been unable to effectively
replace senior terrorists that had been killed, and that al Qaeda has failed in its effort to
portray America as a nation at war with Islam -- thereby draining more widespread
support. Al Qaeda remains dangerous, and we must be vigilant against attacks. But we have
put al Qaeda on a path to defeat, and we will not relent until the job is done.
In Afghanistan, we’ve inflicted serious losses on the Taliban and taken a number of its
strongholds. Along with our surge, our allies also increased their commitments, which helped
stabilize more of the country. Afghan security forces have grown by over 100,000 troops, and
in some provinces and municipalities we’ve already begun to transition responsibility for
security to the Afghan people. In the face of violence and intimidation, Afghans are fighting
and dying for their country, establishing local police forces, opening markets and schools,
creating new opportunities for women and girls, and trying to turn the page on decades of
war.
Of course, huge challenges remain. This is the beginning -- but not the end -- of our effort to
wind down this war. We’ll have to do the hard work of keeping the gains that we’ve made,
while we draw down our forces and transition responsibility for security to the Afghan
government. And next May, in Chicago, we will host a summit with our NATO allies and
partners to shape the next phase of this transition.
We do know that peace cannot come to a land that has known so much war without a political
settlement. So as we strengthen the Afghan government and security forces, America will join
initiatives that reconcile the Afghan people, including the Taliban. Our position on these talks
is clear: They must be led by the Afghan government, and those who want to be a part of a
peaceful Afghanistan must break from al Qaeda, abandon violence, and abide by the Afghan

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
constitution. But, in part because of our military effort, we have reason to believe that
progress can be made.
The goal that we seek is achievable, and can be expressed simply: no safe haven from which
al Qaeda or its affiliates can launch attacks against our homeland or our allies. We won't try to
make Afghanistan a perfect place. We will not police its streets or patrol its mountains
indefinitely. That is the responsibility of the Afghan government, which must step up its ability
to protect its people, and move from an economy shaped by war to one that can sustain a
lasting peace. What we can do, and will do, is build a partnership with the Afghan people that
endures –- one that ensures that we will be able to continue targeting terrorists and
supporting a sovereign Afghan government.
Of course, our efforts must also address terrorist safe havens in Pakistan. No country is more
endangered by the presence of violent extremists, which is why we will continue to press
Pakistan to expand its participation in securing a more peaceful future for this war-torn
region. We'll work with the Pakistani government to root out the cancer of violent extremism,
and we will insist that it keeps its commitments. For there should be no doubt that so long as
I am President, the United States will never tolerate a safe haven for those who aim to kill
us. They cannot elude us, nor escape the justice they deserve.
My fellow Americans, this has been a difficult decade for our country. We've learned anew the
profound cost of war -- a cost that's been paid by the nearly 4,500 Americans who have given
their lives in Iraq, and the over 1,500 who have done so in Afghanistan -- men and women
who will not live to enjoy the freedom that they defended. Thousands more have been
wounded. Some have lost limbs on the battlefield, and others still battle the demons that have
followed them home.
Yet tonight, we take comfort in knowing that the tide of war is receding. Fewer of our sons
and daughters are serving in harm’s way. We’ve ended our combat mission in Iraq, with
100,000 American troops already out of that country. And even as there will be dark days
ahead in Afghanistan, the light of a secure peace can be seen in the distance. These long wars
will come to a responsible end.
As they do, we must learn their lessons. Already this decade of war has caused many to
question the nature of America’s engagement around the world. Some would have America
retreat from our responsibility as an anchor of global security, and embrace an isolation that
ignores the very real threats that we face. Others would have America over-extended,
confronting every evil that can be found abroad.
We must chart a more centered course. Like generations before, we must embrace America’s
singular role in the course of human events. But we must be as pragmatic as we are
passionate; as strategic as we are resolute. When threatened, we must respond with force -but when that force can be targeted, we need not deploy large armies overseas.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
When innocents are being slaughtered and global security endangered, we don’t have to
choose between standing idly by or acting on our own. Instead, we must rally international
action, which we’re doing in Libya, where we do not have a single soldier on the ground, but
are supporting allies in protecting the Libyan people and giving them the chance to determine
their own destiny.
In all that we do, we must remember that what sets America apart is not solely our power -it is the principles upon which our union was founded. We’re a nation that brings our enemies
to justice while adhering to the rule of law, and respecting the rights of all our citizens. We
protect our own freedom and prosperity by extending it to others. We stand not for empire,
but for self-determination. That is why we have a stake in the democratic aspirations that are
now washing across the Arab world. We will support those revolutions with fidelity to our
ideals, with the power of our example, and with an unwavering belief that all human beings
deserve to live with freedom and dignity.
Above all, we are a nation whose strength abroad has been anchored in opportunity for our
citizens here at home. Over the last decade, we have spent a trillion dollars on war, at a time
of rising debt and hard economic times. Now, we must invest in America’s greatest resource -our people. We must unleash innovation that creates new jobs and industries, while living
within our means. We must rebuild our infrastructure and find new and clean sources of
energy. And most of all, after a decade of passionate debate, we must recapture the common
purpose that we shared at the beginning of this time of war. For our nation draws strength
from our differences, and when our union is strong no hill is too steep, no horizon is beyond
our reach.
America, it is time to focus on nation building here at home.
In this effort, we draw inspiration from our fellow Americans who have sacrificed so much on
our behalf. To our troops, our veterans and their families, I speak for all Americans when I
say that we will keep our sacred trust with you, and provide you with the care and benefits
and opportunity that you deserve.
I met some of these patriotic Americans at Fort Campbell. Awhile back, I spoke to the 101st
Airborne that has fought to turn the tide in Afghanistan, and to the team that took out Osama
bin Laden. Standing in front of a model of bin Laden’s compound, the Navy SEAL who led that
effort paid tribute to those who had been lost -- brothers and sisters in arms whose names are
now written on bases where our troops stand guard overseas, and on headstones in quiet
corners of our country where their memory will never be forgotten. This officer -- like so many
others I’ve met on bases, in Baghdad and Bagram, and at Walter Reed and Bethesda Naval
Hospital -- spoke with humility about how his unit worked together as one, depending on each
other, and trusting one another, as a family might do in a time of peril.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s a lesson worth remembering -- that we are all a part of one American family. Though
we have known disagreement and division, we are bound together by the creed that is written
into our founding documents, and a conviction that the United States of America is a country
that can achieve whatever it sets out to accomplish. Now, let us finish the work at hand. Let
us responsibly end these wars, and reclaim the American Dream that is at the center of our
story. With confidence in our cause, with faith in our fellow citizens, and with hope in our
hearts, let us go about the work of extending the promise of America -- for this generation,
and the next.
May God bless our troops.
And may God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329786" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Afghanistan_US_Troops_Bagram.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Afghanistan%20US%20Troops%20Bagram.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Troops in Afghanistan

Delivered 28 March 2010, Clamshell, Bagram Air Field

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

How’s it going, Bagram? Well, you know, it turns out that the American people, they let me use this plane
called Air Force One. And so I thought I’d come over and say hello.
Couple of people I want to thank, in addition to Sergeant Major Eric Johnson for the outstanding introduction
and his great service. I want to thank Major General Mike Scaparrotti. Thank you for your great work as
commanding general. I want to thank Ms. Dawn Liberi, who is the senior civilian representative of Regional
Command East, for her outstanding work; and Brigadier General Steven Kwast, commander -- commander
455th Air Expeditionary Wing. Thank you all for your outstanding service. Give them a big round of
applause.
Thank you for the unbelievable welcome. I know this was on a little bit of short notice.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: No worries.
THE PRESIDENT: No worries. It is great to be here at Bagram, and it’s great to see all the services.
We’ve got Air Force, we’ve got Army -- we’ve got Navy -- we’ve got some Marines in the house. And we’ve
got a lot of civilians here too -- who are making an outstanding contribution to this effort, and I’m honored to
be joined by America’s outstanding civilian military leadership team here in Afghanistan, Ambassador Karl
Eikenberry, who’s doing outstanding work, and the commander of our 43-nation coalition, General Stan
McChrystal. The two of them together have paired up to do an extraordinarily difficult task, but they are
doing it extraordinarily well and we are proud of them. Please give your outstanding team a big round of
applause. They’ve got my full confidence and my full support.
We’re also joined by troops from some of our coalition partners, because this is not simply an American
mission or even just a NATO mission.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Al Qaeda and their extremist allies are a threat to the people of Afghanistan and a threat to the people of
America, but they’re also a threat to people all around the world, and that’s why we’re so proud to have our
coalition partners here with us. Thank you very much for the great work that you do. We salute you and we
honor you for all the sacrifices you make, and you are a true friend of the United States of America. Thank
you very much.
And we also salute the members of the Afghan National Army who are fighting alongside all of you. They’re
risking their lives to protect their country. And as I told President Karzai today, the United States is a partner
but our intent is to make sure that the Afghans have the capacity to provide for their own security. That is
core to our mission, and we are proud of the work that they are doing and the continuing increased capacity
that we’re seeing out of Afghan national security forces. So thank you very much for the great work you’re
doing to take responsibility for security here in your own country.
And to the Afghan people, I want to say that I’m honored to be a guest in your country. Now, the Afghans
have suffered for decades -- decades of war. But we are here to help Afghans forge a hard-won peace
while realizing the extraordinary potential of the Afghan people, Afghanistan’s sons and daughters, from the
soldiers and the police to the farmers and the young students. And we want to build a lasting partnership
founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect, and I’m looking forward to returning to Afghanistan many
times in the years to come.
Now, I know for most of you, you didn’t get a lot of notice that I was coming. But I want you to understand,
there’s no visit that I considered more important than this visit I’m making right now, because I have no
greater honor than serving as your Commander-in-Chief. And it is a privilege to look out and see the
extraordinary efforts of America’s sons and daughters here in Afghanistan. So my main job here today is to
say thank you on behalf of the entire American people.
You are part of the finest military in the history of the world, and we are proud of you. And so I want you to
know that everybody back home is proud of you. Everybody back home is grateful. And everybody
understands the sacrifices that you have made and your families have made to keep America safe and to
keep America secure in this vital mission.
And I know it’s not easy. You’re far away from home. You miss your kids. You miss your spouses, your
family, your friends. Some of you, this is your second or your third or your fourth tour of duty. I’ll tell you
right now the same thing that I said at West Point last December. If I thought for a minute that America’s
vital interests were not served, were not at stake here in Afghanistan, I would order all of you home right
away.
So I want you to know, I want every American serving in Afghanistan, military and civilian, to know, whether
you’re working the flight line here at Bagram or patrolling a village down in Helmand, whether you’re
standing watch at a forward operating base or training our Afghan partners or working with the Afghan
government, your services are absolutely necessary, absolutely essential to America’s safety and security.
Those folks back home are relying on you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We can’t forget why we’re here. We did not choose this war. This was not an act of America wanting to
expand its influence; of us wanting to meddle in somebody else’s business. We were attacked viciously on
9/11. Thousands of our fellow countrymen and women were killed. And this is the region where the
perpetrators of that crime, al Qaeda, still base their leadership. Plots against our homeland, plots against
our allies, plots against the Afghan and Pakistani people are taking place as we speak right here. And if this
region slides backwards, if the Taliban retakes this country and al Qaeda can operate with impunity, then
more American lives will be at stake. The Afghan people will lose their chance at progress and prosperity.
And the world will be significantly less secure.
And as long as I’m your Commander-in-Chief, I am not going to let that happen. That’s why you are here.
I’ve made a promise to all of you who serve. I will never send you into harm’s way unless it’s absolutely
necessary. I anguish in thinking about the sacrifices that so many of you make. That’s why I promise I will
never send you out unless it is necessary.
But that’s only part of the promise, because the other part of the promise is that when it is absolutely
necessary, you will be backed up by a clear mission and the right strategy to finish the job, to get the job
done. And I am confident all of you are going to get the job done right here in Afghanistan. I am confident
of that.
That’s why I ordered more troops and civilians here into Afghanistan shortly after taking office. That’s why
we took a hard look and forged a new strategy and committed more resources in December. That’s why we
pushed our friends and allies and partners to pony up more resources themselves, more commitments of
aid, and additional forces and trainers.
Our broad mission is clear: We are going to disrupt and dismantle, defeat and destroy al Qaeda and its
extremist allies. That is our mission. And to accomplish that goal, our objectives here in Afghanistan are
also clear: We’re going to deny al Qaeda safe haven. We’re going to reverse the Taliban’s momentum.
We’re going to strengthen the capacity of Afghan security forces and the Afghan government so that they
can begin taking responsibility and gain confidence of the Afghan people.
And our strategy includes a military effort that takes the fight to the Taliban while creating the conditions for
greater security and a transition to the Afghans; but also a civilian effort that improves the daily lives of the
Afghan people, and combats corruption; and a partnership with Pakistan and its people, because we can’t
uproot extremists and advance security and opportunity unless we succeed on both sides of the border.
Most of you understand that.
Many of the troops that I ordered to Afghanistan have begun to arrive, and more are on the way. And we’ll
continue to work with Congress to make sure that you’ve got the equipment that you need, particularly as
we complete our drawdown in Iraq. We’re providing more helicopters, we’re providing more intelligence and
reconnaissance capabilities, more special operations forces, more armored vehicles that can save lives.
And here in Afghanistan you’ve gone on the offensive. And the American people back home are noticing.
We have seen a huge increase in support in -- stateside, because people understand the kinds of sacrifices
that you guys are making, and the clarity of mission that you’re bringing to bear.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And together with our coalition and Afghan partners, our troops have pushed the Taliban out of their
stronghold in Marja. We’ve changed the way we operate and interact with the Afghan people. We see
Afghans reclaiming their communities, and we see new partnerships that will help them build their own
future and increase their security.
And across the border, Pakistan is mounting major offensives. We’ve seen violent extremists pushed out of
their sanctuaries. We’ve struck major blows against al Qaeda leadership as well as the Taliban’s. They are
hunkered down. They’re worried about their own safety. It’s harder for them to move, it’s harder for them to
train and to plot and to attack, and all of that makes America safer. And we are going to keep them on the
run because that is what’s going to be required in order to assure that our families back home have the
security that they need. That’s the work that you are doing.
So thanks to you, there’s been progress these last several months. But we know there are going to be
some difficult days ahead. There’s going to be setbacks. We face a determined enemy. But we also know
this: The United States of America does not quit once it starts on something. You don’t quit, the American
armed services does not quit, we keep at it, we persevere, and together with our partners we will prevail. I
am absolutely confident of that.
And I also want you to know that as you’re doing your duty here, we’re going to do right by you back home.
We’re going to help take care of your families, and that’s why the First Lady Michelle Obama visited with
military families and makes sure that their needs are met. That’s why she stays after me once she gets
home, when I’m at the White House. And we’re going to make sure that we are keeping to improve your
pay and your benefits, but also things like childcare and support that ensure that you’ve got a little bit of
security knowing your family is being looked after back home.
And we’ll be there for your when you come home. It’s why we’re improving care for our wounded warriors,
especially those with PTSD and traumatic brain injuries. We’re moving forward with the Post-9/11 GI Bill so
you and your families can pursue your dreams. And we’ve made the biggest increase in the VA budget in
30 years, because we’re going to keep our sacred trust with all those who serve.
You’ve been there for us, tour after tour, year after year, at a time when too many American institutions have
let us down, when too many institutions have put short-term gain in front of a commitment to duty and a
commitment to what’s right. You’ve met your responsibilities, you’ve done your duty -- not just when it’s
easy. That’s why you’ve inspired your fellow Americans. That’s why you inspire me. That’s why you’ve
earned your place next to the very greatest of American generations.
And all of you represent the virtues and the values that America so desperately needs right now: sacrifice
and selflessness, honor and decency. That’s why you’re here today. That’s what you represent.
I’ve seen your sense of purpose and your willingness to step forward and serve in a time of danger. I’ve
seen it from the Marines I’ve met at Camp Lejeune to the cadets at West Point, from the midshipmen at
Annapolis to the troops I’ve met in Iraq, and at bases across America and here in Afghanistan. I’ve seen
your courage and your heroism and the story of a young Sergeant First Class named Jared Monti who gave
his life here in Afghanistan to save his fellow soldiers and his parents. I was proud to present with our
nation’s highest military declaration, the Medal of Honor.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’ve seen your tenacity -- I’ve seen your tenacity and determination in our wounded warriors in Landstuhl
and Walter Reed -- Americans fighting to stand again and to walk again and to get back with -- get back with
their units; incredible dedication, incredible focus, incredible pride. And I’ve been humbled by your sacrifice
and the solemn homecoming of flag-draped coffins at Dover, to the headstones in Section 60 at Arlington
where the fallen from this war rest in peace alongside the fellow heroes of America’s story.
So here in Afghanistan each one of you is part of an unbroken line of American service members who’ve
sacrificed for over two centuries. You’re protecting your fellow citizens from danger. You’re serving
alongside old allies and new friends. You’re bringing hope and opportunity to a people who have known a
lot of pain and a lot of suffering.
And I know that sometimes when you’re watching TV, the politics back home may look a little messy, and
people are yelling and hollering, and Democrats this and Republicans that. I want you to understand this:
There’s no daylight when it comes to support of all of you. There’s no daylight when it comes to supporting
our troops. That brings us together. We are all incredibly proud. We all honor what you do. And all of you
show all of America what’s possible when people come together, not based on color or creed, not based on
faith or station, but based on a commitment to serve together, to bleed together and to succeed together as
one people, as Americans.
Make no mistake, this fight matters to us. It matters to us, it matters to our allies, it matters to the Afghan
people. Al Qaeda and the violent extremists who you’re fighting against want to destroy. But all of you want
to build -- and that is something essential about America. They’ve got no respect for human life. You see
dignity in every human being. That’s part of what we value as Americans. They want to drive races and
regions and religions apart. You want to bring people together and see the world move forward together.
They offer fear, in other words, and you offer hope.
And that’s why it is so important that you know that the entire country stands behind you. That’s why you
put on that uniform, because in an uncertain world, the United States of America will always stand up for the
security of nations and the dignity of human beings. That’s who we are. That is what we do.
Much has happened to our country and to the world since 9/11. But I’m confident that so long as brave men
and women like you -- Americans who are willing to serve selflessly half a world away on behalf of their
fellow citizens and the dreams of people they’ve never met -- so long as there are folks like you, then I’m
confident that our nation will endure, and hope will overcome fear. And I am confident that better days lie
ahead.
So thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States Armed Forces. And God
bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329725" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Afghanistan_War_Troop_Surge.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Afghanistan%20War%20Troop%20Surge.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at West Point on Troop Increase in Afghanistan

Delivered 1 December 2009, Eisenhower Hall, West Point Military Academy, NY

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Please be seated. Good evening.
To the United States Corps of Cadets, to the men and women of our armed services, and to
my fellow Americans: I want to speak to you tonight about our effort in Afghanistan -- the
nature of our commitment there, the scope of our interests, and the strategy that my
Administration will pursue to bring this war to a successful conclusion. It's an extraordinary
honor for me to do so here at West Point, where so many men and women have prepared to
stand up for our security, and to represent what is finest about our country.
To address these important issues, it's important to recall why America and our allies were
compelled to fight a war in Afghanistan in the first place. We did not ask for this fight. On
September 11th, 2001, 19 men hijacked four airplanes and used them to murder nearly 3,000
people. They struck at our military and economic nerve centers. They took the lives of
innocent men, women, and children without regard to their faith or race or station. Were it not
for the heroic actions of passengers on board one of these flights, they could have also struck
at one of the great symbols of our democracy in Washington, and killed many more.
As we know, these men belonged to al Qaeda -- a group of extremists who have distorted and
defiled Islam, one of the world's great religions, to justify the slaughter of innocents. Al
Qaeda's base of operations was in Afghanistan, where they were harbored by the Taliban -- a
ruthless, repressive, and radical movement that seized control of that country after it was
ravaged by years of Soviet occupation and civil war, and after the attention of America and
our friends had turned elsewhere.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Just days after 9/11, Congress authorized the use of force against al Qaeda and those who
harbored them -- an authorization that continues to this day. The vote in the Senate was 98
to 0. The vote in the House was 420 to 1. For the first time in its history, the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization invoked Article 5 -- the commitment that says an attack on one member
nation is an attack on all. And the United Nations Security Council endorsed the use of all
necessary steps to respond to the 9/11 attacks. America, our allies, and the world were acting
as one to destroy al Qaeda's terrorist network, and to protect our common security.
Under the banner of this domestic unity and international legitimacy -- and only after the
Taliban refused to turn over Osama bin Laden -- we sent our troops into Afghanistan. Within a
matter of months, al Qaeda was scattered and many of its operatives were killed. The Taliban
was driven from power and pushed back on its heels. A place that had known decades of fear
now had reason to hope. At a conference convened by the UN, a provisional government was
established under President Hamid Karzai. And an International Security Assistance Force was
established to help bring a lasting peace to a war-torn country.
Then, in early 2003, the decision was made to wage a second war in Iraq. The wrenching
debate over the Iraq War is well-known and need not be repeated here. It's enough to say
that for the next six years, the Iraq War drew the dominant share of our troops, our
resources, our diplomacy, and our national attention -- and that the decision to go into Iraq
caused substantial rifts between America and much of the world.
Today, after extraordinary costs, we are bringing the Iraq war to an responsible end. We will
remove our combat brigades from Iraq by the end of next summer, and all of our troops by
the end of 2011. That we are doing so is a testament to the character of the men and women
in uniform. Thanks to their courage, grit, and perseverance, we have given Iraqis a chance to
shape their future, and we are successfully leaving Iraq to its people.
But while we have achieved hard-earned milestones in Iraq, the situation in Afghanistan has
deteriorated. After escaping across the border into Pakistan in 2001 and 2002, al Qaeda's
leadership established a safe-haven there. Although a legitimate government was elected by
the Afghan people, it's been hampered by corruption, the drug trade, an under-developed
economy, and insufficient security forces. Over the last several years, the Taliban has
maintained common cause with al Qaeda, as they both seek an overthrow of the Afghan
government. Gradually, the Taliban has begun to control additional swaths of territory in
Afghanistan, while engaging in increasingly brazen and devastating attacks of terrorism
against the Pakistani people.
Now throughout this period, our troop levels in Afghanistan remained a fraction of what they
were in Iraq. When I took office, we had just over 32,000 Americans serving in Afghanistan,
compared to 160,000 in Iraq at the peak of the war. Commanders in Afghanistan repeatedly
asked for support to deal with the reemergence of the Taliban, but these reinforcements did
not arrive.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why, shortly after taking office, I approved a long-standing request for more
troops. After consultations with our allies, I then announced a strategy recognizing the
fundamental connection between our war effort in Afghanistan and the extremist safe-havens
in Pakistan. I set a goal that was narrowly defined as disrupting, dismantling, and defeating al
Qaeda and its extremist allies, and pledged to better coordinate our military and civilian effort.
Since then, we have made progress on some important objectives. High-ranking al Qaeda and
Taliban leaders have been killed, and we've stepped up the pressure on al Qaeda world-wide.
In Pakistan, that nation's Army has gone on its largest offensive in years. In Afghanistan, we
and our allies prevented the Taliban from stopping a presidential election, and although it was
marred by fraud, that election produced a government that is consistent with Afghanistan's
laws and Constitution.
Yet huge challenges remain. Afghanistan is not lost, but for several years it has moved
backwards. There's no imminent threat of the government being overthrown, but the Taliban
has gained momentum. Al Qaeda has not reemerged in Afghanistan in the same numbers as
before 9/11, but they retain their safe-havens along the border. And our forces lack the full
support they need to effectively train and partner with Afghan security forces and better
secure the population. Our new Commander in Afghanistan, General McChrystal, has reported
that the security situation is more serious than he anticipated. In short, the status quo is not
sustainable.
As cadets, you volunteered for service during this time of danger. Some of you fought in
Afghanistan. Some of you will deploy there. As your Commander-in-Chief, I owe you a mission
that is clearly defined and worthy of your service. And that's why, after the Afghan voting was
completed, I insisted on a thorough review of our strategy. Now let me be clear: There has
never been an option before me that called for troop deployments before 2010. So there has
been no delay or denial of resources necessary for the conduct of the war during this review
period. Instead, the review has allowed me ask the hard questions, and to explore all of the
different options along with my national security team, our military and civilian leadership in
Afghanistan, and our key partners. Now given the stakes involved, I owed the American
people, and our troops, no less.
This review is now complete. And as Commander-in-Chief, I have determined that it is in our
vital national interest to send an additional 30,000 U.S. troops to Afghanistan. After 18
months, our troops will begin to come home. These are the resources that we need to seize
the initiative, while building the Afghan capacity that can allow for a responsible transition of
our forces out of Afghanistan.
I do not make this decision lightly. I opposed the war in Iraq precisely because I believe that
we must exercise restraint in the use of military force, and always consider the long-term
consequences of our actions. We have been at war now for eight years, at enormous cost in
lives and resources. Years of debate over Iraq and terrorism have left our unity on national
security issues in tatters and created a highly polarized and partisan backdrop for this effort.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And having just experienced the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, the
American people are understandably focused on rebuilding our economy and putting people to
work here at home.
And most of all, I know that this decision asks even more of you -- a military that, along with
your families, has already borne the heaviest of all burdens. As President, I have signed a
letter of condolence to the family of each American who gives their life in these wars. I have
read the letters from the parents and spouses of those who deployed. I've visited our
courageous wounded warriors at Walter Reed. I've travelled to Dover to meet the flag-draped
caskets of 18 Americans returning home to their final resting place. I see firsthand the terrible
wages of war. If I did not think that the security of the United States and the safety of the
American people were at stake in Afghanistan, I would gladly order every single one of our
troops home tomorrow.
So no, I do not make this decision lightly. I make this decision because I am convinced that
our security is at stake in Afghanistan and Pakistan. This is the epicenter of violent extremism
practiced by al Qaeda. It is from here that we were attacked on 9/11, and it is from here that
new attacks are being plotted as I speak. This is no idle danger, no hypothetical threat. In the
last few months alone, we have apprehended extremists within our borders who were sent
here from the border region of Afghanistan and Pakistan to commit new acts of terror. And
this danger will only grow if the region slides backwards, and al Qaeda can operate with
impunity. We must keep the pressure on al Qaeda, and to do that we must increase the
stability and capacity of our partners in the region.
Of course this burden is not ours alone to bear. This is not just America's war. Since 9/11, al
Qaeda's safe-havens have been the source of attacks against London and Amman and Bali.
The people and governments of both Afghanistan and Pakistan are endangered. And the
stakes are even higher within a nuclear-armed Pakistan, because we know that al Qaeda and
other extremists seek nuclear weapons, and we have every reason to believe that they would
use them.
These facts compel us to act along with our friends and allies. Our overarching goal remains
the same: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan, and to
prevent its capacity to threaten America and our allies in the future.
To meet that goal, we will pursue the following objectives within Afghanistan. We must deny
al Qaeda a safe-haven. We must reverse the Taliban's momentum and deny it the ability to
overthrow the government. And we must strengthen the capacity of Afghanistan's security
forces and government, so that they can take lead responsibility for Afghanistan's future.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We will meet these objectives in three ways. First, we will pursue a military strategy that will
break the Taliban's momentum and increase Afghanistan's capacity over the next 18 months.
The 30,000 additional troops that I'm announcing tonight will deploy in the first part of 2010 - the fastest possible pace -- so that they can target the insurgency and secure key population
centers. They'll increase our ability to train competent Afghan security forces, and to partner
with them so that more Afghans can get into the fight. And they will help create the conditions
for the United States to transfer responsibility to the Afghans.
Because this is an international effort, I've asked that our commitment be joined by
contributions from our allies. Some have already provided additional troops, and we're
confident that there will be further contributions in the days and weeks ahead. Our friends
have fought and bled and died alongside us in Afghanistan. And now we must come together
to end this war successfully. For what's at stake is not simply a test of NATO's credibility;
what's at stake is the security of our allies, and the common security of the world.
Now taken together, these additional American and international troops will allow us to
accelerate handing over responsibility to Afghan forces, and allow us to begin the transfer of
our forces out of Afghanistan in July of 2011. Just as we have done in Iraq, we will execute
this transition responsibly, taking into account conditions on the ground. We'll continue to
advise and assist Afghanistan's security forces to ensure that they can succeed over the long
haul. But it will be clear to the Afghan government -- and more importantly, to the Afghan
people -- that they will ultimately be responsible for their own country.
Second, we will work with our partners, the United Nations, and the Afghan people to pursue
a more effective civilian strategy, so that the government can take advantage of improved
security.
This effort must be based on performance. The days of providing a blank check are over.
President Karzai's inauguration speech sent the right message about moving in a new
direction. And going forward, we will be clear about what we expect from those who receive
our assistance. We'll support Afghan Ministries, governors, and local leaders that combat
corruption and deliver for the people. We expect those who are ineffective or corrupt to be
held accountable. And we will also focus our assistance in areas, such as agriculture, that can
make an immediate impact in the lives of the Afghan people.
The people of Afghanistan have endured violence for decades. They've been confronted with
occupation by the Soviet Union, and then by foreign al Qaeda fighters who used Afghan land
for their own purposes. So tonight, I want the Afghan people to understand: America seeks an
end to this era of war and suffering. We have no interest in occupying your country. We will
support efforts by the Afghan government to open the door to those Taliban who abandon
violence and respect the human rights of their fellow citizens.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we will seek a partnership with Afghanistan grounded in mutual respect -- to isolate those
who destroy, to strengthen those who build, to hasten the day when our troops will leave, and
to forge a lasting friendship in which America is your partner, and never your patron.
Third, we will act with the full recognition that our success in Afghanistan is inextricably linked
to our partnership with Pakistan.
We're in Afghanistan to prevent a cancer from once again spreading through that country. But
this same cancer has also taken root in the border region of Pakistan. And that's why we need
a strategy that works on both sides of the border.
In the past, there have been those in Pakistan who have argued that the struggle against
extremism is not their fight, and that Pakistan is better off doing little or seeking
accommodation with those who use violence. But in recent years, as innocents have been
killed from Karachi to Islamabad, it has become clear that it is the Pakistani people who are
the most endangered by extremism. Public opinion has turned. The Pakistani Army has waged
an offensive in Swat and South Waziristan. And there is no doubt that the United States and
Pakistan share a common enemy.
In the past, we too often defined our relationship with Pakistan narrowly. And those days are
over. Moving forward, we are committed to a partnership with Pakistan that is built on a
foundation of mutual interests, mutual respect, and mutual trust. We will strengthen
Pakistan's capacity to target those groups that threaten our countries, and have made it clear
that we cannot tolerate a safe-haven for terrorists whose location is known, and whose
intentions are clear. America is also providing substantial resources to support Pakistan's
democracy and development. We are the largest international supporter for those Pakistanis
displaced by the fighting. And going forward, the Pakistani people must know: America will
remain a strong supporter of Pakistan's security and prosperity long after the guns have fallen
silent, so that the great potential of its people can be unleashed.
These are the three core elements of our strategy: a military effort to create the conditions for
a transition; a civilian surge that reinforces positive action; and an effective partnership with
Pakistan.
I recognize that there are a range of concerns about our approach. So let me briefly address a
few of the prominent arguments that I have heard, and which I take very seriously.
First, there are those who suggest that Afghanistan is another Vietnam. They argue that it
cannot be stabilized, and we're better off cutting our losses and rapidly withdrawing. I believe
this argument depends upon a false reading of history. Unlike Vietnam, we are joined by a
broad coalition of 43 nations that recognizes the legitimacy of our action. Unlike Vietnam, we
are not facing a broad-based popular insurgency.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And most importantly, unlike Vietnam, the American people were viciously attacked from
Afghanistan, and remain a target for those same extremists who are plotting along its border.
To abandon this area now, and to rely only on efforts against al Qaeda from a distance, would
significantly hamper our ability to keep the pressure on al Qaeda, and create an unacceptable
risk of additional attacks on our homeland and our allies.
Second, there are those who acknowledge that we can't leave Afghanistan in its current state,
but suggest that we go forward with the troops that we already have. But this would simply
maintain a status quo in which we muddle through, and permit a slow deterioration of
conditions there. It would ultimately prove more costly and prolong our stay in Afghanistan,
because we would never be able to generate the conditions needed to train Afghan security
forces and give them the space to take over.
Finally, there are those who oppose identifying a timeframe for our transition to Afghan
responsibility. Indeed, some call for a more dramatic and open-ended escalation of our war
effort -- one that would commit us to a nation building project of up to a decade. I reject this
course because it sets goals that are beyond what can be achieved at a reasonable cost, and
what we need to achieve to secure our interests. Furthermore, the absence of a timeframe for
transition would deny us any sense of urgency in working with the Afghan government. It
must be clear that Afghans will have to take responsibility for their security, and that America
has no interest in fighting an endless war in Afghanistan.
As President, I refuse to set goals that go beyond our responsibility, our means, or our
interests. And I must weigh all of the challenges that our nation faces. I don't have the luxury
of committing to just one. Indeed, I'm mindful of the words of President Eisenhower, who -- in
discussing our national security -- said, "Each proposal must be weighed in the light of a
broader consideration: the need to maintain balance in and among national programs."
Over the past several years, we have lost that balance. We've failed to appreciate the
connection between our national security and our economy. In the wake of an economic crisis,
too many of our neighbors and friends are out of work and struggle to pay the bills. Too many
Americans are worried about the future facing our children. Meanwhile, competition within the
global economy has grown more fierce. So we can't simply afford to ignore the price of these
wars.
All told, by the time I took office the cost of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan approached a
trillion dollars. Going forward, I am committed to addressing these costs openly and honestly.
Our new approach in Afghanistan is likely to cost us roughly 30 billion dollars for the military
this year, and I'll work closely with Congress to address these costs as we work to bring down
our deficit.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
But as we end the war in Iraq and transition to Afghan responsibility, we must rebuild our
strength here at home. Our prosperity provides a foundation for our power. It pays for our
military. It underwrites our diplomacy. It taps the potential of our people, and allows
investment in new industry. And it will allow us to compete in this century as successfully as
we did in the last. That's why our troop commitment in Afghanistan cannot be open-ended -because the nation that I am most interested in building is our own.
Now let me be clear: None of this will be easy. The struggle against violent extremism will not
be finished quickly, and it extends well beyond Afghanistan and Pakistan. It will be an
enduring test of our free society and our leadership in the world. And unlike the great power
conflicts and clear lines of division that defined the 20th century, our effort will involve
disorderly regions, failed states, diffuse enemies.
So as a result, America will have to show our strength in the way that we end wars and
prevent conflict -- not just how we wage wars. We'll have to be nimble and precise in our use
of military power. Where al Qaeda and its allies attempt to establish a foothold -- whether in
Somalia or Yemen or elsewhere -- they must be confronted by growing pressure and strong
partnerships.
And we can't count on military might alone. We have to invest in our homeland security,
because we can't capture or kill every violent extremist abroad. We have to improve and
better coordinate our intelligence, so that we stay one step ahead of shadowy networks.
We will have to take away the tools of mass destruction. And that's why I've made it a central
pillar of my foreign policy to secure loose nuclear materials from terrorists, to stop the spread
of nuclear weapons, and to pursue the goal of a world without them, because every nation
must understand that true security will never come from an endless race for ever-more
destructive weapons. True security will come for those who reject them.
We will have to use diplomacy, because no one nation can meet the challenges of an
interconnected world acting alone. I've spent this year renewing our alliances and forging new
partnerships. And we have forged a new beginning between America and the Muslim World -one that recognizes our mutual interest in breaking a cycle of conflict, and that promises a
future in which those who kill innocents are isolated by those who stand up for peace and
prosperity and human dignity.
And finally, we must draw on the strength of our values. For the challenges that we face may
have changed, but the things that we believe in must not. And that's why we must promote
our values by living them at home -- which is why I have prohibited torture and will close the
prison at Guantanamo Bay. And we must make it clear to every man, woman, and child
around the world who lives under the dark cloud of tyranny that America will speak out on
behalf of their human rights, and tend to the light of freedom, and justice, and opportunity,
and respect for the dignity of all peoples. That is who we are. That is the source, the moral
source of America's authority.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Since the days of Franklin Roosevelt, and the service and sacrifice of our grandparents and
great grandparents, our country has borne a special burden in global affairs. We have spilled
American blood in many countries on multiple continents. We have spent our revenue to help
others rebuild from rubble and develop their own economies. We have joined with others to
develop an architecture of institutions from the United Nations to NATO to the World Bank that
provide for the common security and prosperity of human beings.
We have not always been thanked for these efforts, and we have at times made mistakes. But
more than any other nation, the United States of America has underwritten global security for
over six decades -- a time that, for all its problems, has seen walls come down, and markets
open, and billions lifted from poverty, unparalleled scientific progress, and advancing frontiers
of human liberty.
For unlike the great powers of old, we have not sought world domination. Our union was
founded in resistance to oppression. We do not seek to occupy other nations. We will not
claim another nation's resources or target other peoples because their faith or ethnicity is
different from ours. What we have fought for, and what we continue to fight for, is a better
future for our children and grandchildren, and we believe that their lives will be better if
others [sic] peoples' children and grandchildren can live in freedom and access opportunity.
As a country, we're not as young and perhaps not as innocent as we were when Roosevelt
was President. Yet we are still heirs to a noble struggle for freedom. And now we must
summon all of our might and moral suasion to meet the challenges of a new age.
In the end, our security and leadership does not come solely from the strength of our arms. It
derives from our people: from the workers and businesses who will rebuild our economy; from
the entrepreneurs and researchers who will pioneer new industries; from the teachers that will
educate our children, and the service of those who work in our communities at home; from
the diplomats and Peace Corps volunteers who spread hope abroad; and from the men and
women in uniform who are part of an unbroken line of sacrifice that has made government of
the people, by the people, and for the people a reality on this Earth.2
This vast and diverse citizenry will not always agree on every issue -- nor should we. But I
also know that we, as a country, cannot sustain our leadership nor navigate the momentous
challenges of our time if we allow ourselves to be split asunder by the same rancor and
cynicism and partisanship that has in recent times poisoned our national discourse.
It's easy to forget that when this war began, we were united -- bound together by the fresh
memory of a horrific attack, and by the determination to defend our homeland and the values
we hold dear. I refuse to accept the notion that we cannot summon that unity again. I believe
-- I believe with every fiber of my being that we, as Americans, can still come together behind
a common purpose. For our values are not simply words written into parchment. They are a
creed that calls us together, and that has carried us through the darkest of storms as one
nation, as one people.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
America, we are passing through a time of great trial. And the message that we send in the
midst of these storms must be clear: that our cause is just, our resolve unwavering. We will
go forward with the confidence that right makes might, and with the commitment to forge an
America that is safer, a world that is more secure, and a future that represents not the
deepest of fears but the highest of hopes.
Thank you. God Bless you. And God Bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329917" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Alabama_Tornado_Devestation.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Alabama%20Tornado%20Devestation.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Remarks in Alabama on the Tornado Devastation

Delivered 29 April 2011, Alberta, Alabama

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Well, Michelle and I want to express, first of all, our deepest condolences to not just the city of Tuscaloosa
but the state of Alabama and all the other states that have been affected by this unbelievable storm. We just
took a tour, and I’ve got to say I’ve never seen devastation like this. It is heartbreaking. We were just talking
to some residents here who were lucky enough to escape alive, but have lost everything. They mentioned
that their neighbors had lost two of their grandchildren in the process.
What you’re seeing here is the consequence of just a few minutes of this extraordinarily powerful storm
sweeping through this community. And as the governor was mentioning, Tuscaloosa typically gets a tornado
during the season, but this is something that I don’t think anybody has seen before.
In addition to keeping all the families who’ve been affected in our thoughts and prayers, obviously our
biggest priority now is to help this community recover. I want to thank Mayor Maddox for his extraordinary
leadership. Chief Burgess [ph] I know is having to dealing with a lot of difficulties. One of the challenges that
the mayor was explaining is, is that the assets of the city -- a fire station that we passed on the way in,
police resources, emergency resources -- those too have been affected.
Fortunately the governor has done an extraordinary job with his team in making sure that the resources of
the state are mobilized and have been brought in here. I’m very pleased that we’ve got a FEMA director in
Craig Fugate who is as experienced as anybody in responding to disasters even of this magnitude. And
we’ve already provided the disaster designations -- we’ve already provided the disaster designations that
are required to make sure that the maximum federal help comes here as quickly as possible.
Craig is working with the teams on the ground to make sure that we are seamlessly coordinating between
the state, local and federal governments. And I want to just make a commitment to the communities here
that we are going to do everything we can to help these communities rebuild.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We can’t bring those who have been lost back. They’re alongside God at this point. We can help maybe a
little bit with the families dealing with the grief of having a loved one lost. But the property damage, which is
obviously extensive, that's something that we can do something about.
And so we’re going to do everything we can to partner with you, Mr. Mayor, with you, governor. As the
governor was pointing out, this community was hit as bad as any place, but there are communities all across
Alabama and all across this region that have been affected, and we’re going to be making that same
commitment to make sure that we’re doing whatever we can to make sure that people are okay.
That bee likes you.
GOVERNOR BENTLEY: It’s a wasp.
THE PRESIDENT: Okay, got it. There you go.
GOVERNOR BENTLEY: No, he got him away. You didn’t get him.
MAYOR MADDOX: Where’s the Secret Service when you need them?
THE PRESIDENT: Finally, let me just say this. As you walk around, we were just talking to three young
people over there -- college students here at the University of Alabama who are volunteering now to help
clean up. One of the young ladies there, she actually lived in this apartment; wasn’t here at the time the
storm happened.
What you’re struck by is people’s resilience and the way that the community has come together. And
obviously that's testimony to the leadership of the governor and the mayor, but it’s also inherent as part of
the American spirit. We go through hard times, but no matter how hard we may be tested, we maintain our
faith and we look to each other to make sure that we’re supporting each other and helping each other. I’m
sure that that spirit is going to continue until this city is all the way back.
So, Mr. Mayor -- he was pointing out that there’s a lot of national media down here now, and the mayor
expressed the concern that perhaps the media will move on in a day or a week or a month, and that folks
will forget what’s happened here. And I want to assure him that the American people all across the country
are with him and his community, and we’re going to make sure that you’re not forgotten and that we do
everything we can to make sure that we rebuild.
So with that, Governor, would you like to say a few words?
GOVERNOR BENTLEY: I would. And, Mr. President, I would like to personally thank you and Mrs. Obama
for coming and visiting Alabama because you know as you fly over this -- and I did yesterday -- as you fly
over it from the air, it does not do it justice until you’re here on the ground. And I just want you to know how
much I appreciate that.
We asked for -- we’ve mobilized the state. We declared a state of emergency early on, even before the first
tornadoes hit, and then we mobilized our National Guard the first day. We then asked the President for aid
and we asked him to expedite that, and they have done that. And I just want you to know how much I
appreciate that, Mr. President, because all these people appreciate that so much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We have eight counties across the state that have been hit by major tornadoes. This probably is the worst
one, but we have others. As you go across the state, you see the same evidence of tornadoes all across the
state.
And so there are people that are hurting. We have now 210 confirmed deaths in Alabama. We have 1,700
injured. We have a number of people missing at the present time. We’re going to continue to work in a
rescue-type mode, but we’re now more in a recovery mode.
Thank you, Mr. President. If you’ll keep him off of me -THE PRESIDENT: I’m going to keep my eye on you. We’re looking out for each other. That's -GOVERNOR BENTLEY: Yes, sir. Yes, sir.
But I am -- let me say I am so proud of our first responders in this state. They have done an outstanding job.
Our mayors, our county commissioners, our police, our firemen -- they have all just done a fantastic job. Our
EMA people, they have just -- we have got a great team. They’ve all worked together. And now we have the
federal government helping us. And, you know, that just shows when locals and state and federal
government works together, we can get things accomplished, and that's what we’re going to do.
And so, Mr. President, welcome to Alabama, but not under these circumstances. We want you to come back
and maybe go to a football game over here at a later day and when things are better. But thank you for your
help.
THE PRESIDENT: I will gladly come back.
GOVERNOR BENTLEY: Thank you, sir.
THE PRESIDENT: Mr. Mayor, if you’d like to say a few words.
MAYOR MADDOX: Mr. President, Governor, Mrs. Obama, thank you for coming today. The last 36 hours
have been probably the most trying time in this community’s history. But you’re going to see a new story
being written here in Tuscaloosa. And in the years to come these chapters are going to be fueled with hope
and opportunity.
Since this tragedy began, I’ve been using Romans 12:12 when Paul wrote under persecution, “Rejoice in
our confident hope.” Well, today, Mr. President, your visit here has brought a confident hope to this
community. And in the days, weeks and months to come, we’re going to be a story that you’re going to be
very proud of and you can talk about across this land.
Thank you again for coming today.
THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you for your leadership. And two last points I want to make. First of all, we’ve
got our congressional delegation here, and I am absolutely confident that they will make sure that the
resources are available to help rebuild.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
To all the local officials who are here, I know that they’ve been personally affected, but I know that they’re
going to provide the leadership in this community, working with the mayor and the governor to do what is
needed.
And finally, I think the mayor said something very profound as we were driving over here. He said, what's
amazing is when something like this happens, folks forget all their petty differences. Politics, differences of
religion or race, all that fades away when we are confronted with the awesome power of nature. And we’re
reminded that all we have is each other.
And so hopefully that spirit continues and grows. If nothing else comes out of this tragedy, let’s hope that
that's one of the things that comes out.
So thank you very much, everybody.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329617" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Al-Arabiya_Interview.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Al-Arabiya%20Interview.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Al-Arabiya Television Interview With Hisham Melhem
delivered 26 January 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. Melhem: Mr. President, thank you for this opportunity -- we really appreciate it.
President Obama: Thank you so much.
Mr. Melhem: Sir, you just met with your personal envoy to the Middle East, Senator Mitchell.
Obviously, his first -- first task is to consolidate the cease-fire. But beyond that you've been
saying that you want to pursue actively and aggressively peacemaking between the
Palestinians and...the Israelis. Tell us a little bit about how do you see your personal role,
because, you know, if the President of the United States is not involved, nothing happens -as the history of peace making shows. Will you be proposing ideas, pitching proposals,
parameters, as one of your predecessors did? Or just urging the parties to come up with their
own resolutions, as -- as your immediate predecessor did?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, I -- I think the -- the most important thing is for the United States
to get engaged right away.
Mr. Melhem: Right.
President Obama: And George Mitchell is somebody of enormous stature. He is one of the
few people who have international experience brokering peace deals.
And so what I told him is start by listening, because all too often the United States starts by
dictating -- in the past on some of these issues -- and we don't always know all the factors
that are involved. So, let's listen. He's going to be speaking to all the major parties involved
and he will then report back to me. From there, we will formulate a specific response.
Ultimately, we cannot tell either the Israelis or the Palestinians what's best for them. They're
going to have to make some decisions. But I do believe that the moment is ripe for both sides
to realize that the path that they are on is one that is not going to result in prosperity and
security for their people, and that, instead, it's time to return to the negotiating table.
It's going to be difficult; it's going to take time. I don't want to prejudge many of these issues,
and I want to make sure that expectations are not raised so that we think that this is going to
be resolved in a few months. But if we start steady progress on these issues, I'm absolutely
confident that the United States -- working in tandem with the European Union, with Russia,
with all the Arab states in the region -- I'm absolutely certain that we can make significant
progress.
Mr. Melhem: You've been saying essentially that we should not look at these issues -- like
the Palestinian-Israeli track and separation from the border region -- you've been talking
about a kind of holistic approach to the region. Are we expecting a different paradigm in the
sense that in the past one of the critiques -- at least from the Arab side, the Muslim side -- is
that everything the Americans always test -- tested with the Israelis, if it works. Now there is
an Arab peace plan, there is a regional aspect to it. And -- And you've indicated that. Would
there be any shift, a paradigm shift?
President Obama: Well -- Well, here's what I think is important. You look at the proposal
that was put forth by King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia --

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. Melhem: Right.
President Obama: I might not agree with every aspect of the proposal, but it took great
courage -Mr. Melhem: Absolutely.
President Obama: -- to put forward something that is as significant as that. I think that
there are ideas across the region of how we might pursue peace. I do think that it is
impossible for us to think only in terms of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and not think in terms
of what's happening with Syria or Iran or Lebanon or Afghanistan and Pakistan.
Mr. Melhem: Sure.
President Obama: These things are interrelated.
Mr. Melhem: Sure.
President Obama: And what I've said -- and I think Hillary Clinton has expressed this in her
confirmation -- is that if we are looking at the region as a whole and communicating a
message to the Arab world and the Muslim world, that we are ready to initiate a new
partnership based on mutual respect and mutual interest, then I think that we can make
significant progress.
Now, Israel is a strong ally of the United States. They will not stop being a strong ally of the
United States. And I will continue to believe that Israel's security is paramount. But I also
believe that there are Israelis who recognize that it is important to achieve peace. They will be
willing to make sacrifices if the time is appropriate and if there is serious partnership on the
other side.
And so what we want to do is to listen, set aside some of the preconceptions that have existed
and -- and have built up over the last several years. And I think if we do that, then there's a
possibility at least of -- of achieving some breakthroughs.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. Melhem: Now I want to ask you about the broader Muslim world, but let me -- one final
thing about the Palestinian-Israeli theater. There are many Palestinians and Israelis who are
very frustrated now with the -- with the current conditions and they are losing hope; they are
disillusioned; and they believe that time is running out on the two-state solution because -mainly because of the -- the settlement activities in...Palestinian-occupied territories. Will it
still be possible to see a Palestinian state -- and you know the contours of it -- within the first
Obama Administration?
President Obama: I think it is possible for us to see a Palestinian state -- I'm not going to
put a time frame on it -- that is contiguous, that allows freedom of movement for its people,
that allows for trade with other countries, that allows the creation of businesses and
commerce so that people have a better life.
And, look, I think anybody who has studied the region recognizes that the situation for the
ordinary Palestinian in many cases has not improved. And the bottom line in all these talks
and all these conversations is: Is a child in the Palestinian Territories going to be better off?
Do they have a future for themselves? And, is the child in Israel going to feel confident about
his or her safety and security? And if we can keep our focus on making their lives better and
look forward, and not simply think about all the conflicts and tragedies of the past, then I
think that we have an opportunity to make real progress. But it is not going to be easy, and
that's why we've got George Mitchell going there. This is somebody with extraordinary
patience as well as extraordinary skill, and that's what's going to be necessary.
Mr. Melhem: Let me take a broader look at the whole region. You are planning to address the
Muslim world in your first 100 days from a Muslim capital. And everybody is speculating about
the capital. If you have anything further, that would be great. How concerned are you -because, let me tell you, honestly, when I -- when I see certain things about America -- in
some parts, I don't want to exaggerate -- there is a demonization of America.
President Obama: Absolutely.
Mr. Melhem: It's become like a new religion, and like a new religion it has new converts, like
a new religion has its own high priests.
President Obama: Right.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. Melhem: It's own, even, religious texts.
President Obama: Right.
Mr. Melhem: And...in the last -- since 9/11 and because of Iraq, that alienation, you know, is
-- is wider between the Americans. And...in generations past, the United States was held high.
It was the only Western power with no colonial legacy.
President Obama: Right.
Mr. Melhem: How concerned are you and...because people sense that you have a different
political discourse. And...I think, judging by [inaudible] and Zawahiri and Osama bin Laden
and all these, that... -President Obama: Yeah, I noticed.
Mr. Melhem: -- a chorus -President Obama: They -- They seem nervous.
Mr. Melhem: They seem very nervous, exactly. And...now, tell me why they should be more
nervous?
President Obama: Well...I think that when you look at the rhetoric that they've been using
against me before I even took office -Mr. Melhem: I know, I know.
President Obama: -- what that tells me is that their ideas are bankrupt.
Mr. Melhem: Absolutely.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: ...There's no actions that they've taken that say a child in the Muslim
world is getting a better education because of them, or has better health care because of
them.
In my inauguration speech, I've spoke[n] about: You will be judged on what you built, not
what you destroy. And what they've been doing is destroying things. And over time, I think
the Muslim world has recognized that that path is leading no place, except more death and
destruction.
Now, my job is to communicate the fact that the United States has a stake in the well-being of
the Muslim world that the language we use has to be language of respect. You know, I have
Muslim members of my family.
Mr. Melhem: True.
President Obama: I have lived in Muslim countries.
Mr. Melhem: The largest one.
President Obama: The largest one, Indonesia. And so what I want to communicate is the
fact that in all my travels throughout the Muslim world, what I've come to understand is is
that regardless of your faith -- and America is a country of Muslim[s], Jews, Christians, nonbelievers -- regardless of your faith, people all have certain common hopes and common
dreams.
And my job is to communicate to the American people -Mr. Melhem: True.
President Obama: -- that the Muslim world is filled with extraordinary people who simply
want to live their lives and see their children live better lives. My job to the Muslim world is to
communicate that the Americans are not your enemy. We sometimes make mistakes. We
have not been perfect. But if you look at the track record, as you say, America was not born
as a colonial power, and that the same respect and partnership that America had with the
Muslim world as recently as 20 or 30 years ago --

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. Melhem: True.
President Obama: -- there's no reason why we can't restore that. And -- And that I think is
going to be an important task. But ultimately, people are going to judge me not by my words
but by my actions and my Administration's actions. And I think that what you will see over the
next several years is that I'm not going to agree with everything that some Muslim leader
may say, or what's on a television station in the Arab world; but I think that what you'll see is
somebody who is listening, who is respectful, and who is trying to promote the interests not
just of the United States, but also ordinary people who right now are suffering from poverty
and a lack of opportunity. I want to make sure that I'm speaking to them, as well.
Mr. Melhem: And any decision on -- on from where you will -- you will be addressing the
Muslim world or is too early?
President Obama: Well, you know, I'm not -- I'm not going to break the news right here.
Mr. Melhem: Maybe next time?
President Obama: But maybe next time. ...But it is something that's going to be important.
Mr. Melhem: True.
President Obama: I -- I want people to recognize, though, that we are going to be making a
series of initiatives. Us sending George Mitchell -Mr. Melhem: Right. True.
President Obama: -- to the Middle East is fulfilling my campaign promise that we're not
going to wait until the end of my Administration to deal with Palestinian and -- and Israeli
peace. We're going to start now. It may take a long time to do -Mr. Melhem: Sure.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: -- but we're going to do it now. We're going to follow through on our
commitment for me to address the Muslim world from a Muslim capital. We are going to follow
through on many of my commitments to do a more effective job of reaching out, listening, as
well as speaking to the Muslim world.
And I-- you're going to see me following through with dealing with a drawdown of troops in
Iraq, so that Iraqis can start taking more responsibility. And finally, I think you've already
seen a commitment, in terms of closing Guantanamo -Mr. Melhem: Absolutely.
President Obama: -- and making clear that even as we are decisive in going after terrorist
organizations that would kill innocent civilians, that we're going to do so on our terms, and
we're going to do so respecting the rule of law that I think makes America great.
Mr. Melhem: President Bush framed the war on -- on terror conceptually in a -- in a way that
was very broad, "War on terror," and he used sometimes certain terminology that the -- that
the many people -- "Islamofascism."1
President Obama: Right.
Mr. Melhem: You've always framed it in a different way, specifically against one group called
al Qaeda -President Obama: Right.
Mr. Melhem: -- and their collaborators. And -- And is this one way of -President Obama: ...I think that you're making a very important point. And -- And that is
that the language we use matters. And what we need to understand is, is that there are
extremist organizations -- whether Muslim or any other faith in the past -- that will use faith
as a justification for violence. We cannot paint with a broad brush a faith as a consequence of
the violence that is done in that faith's name.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so you will I think see our Administration be very clear in distinguishing between
organizations like al Qaeda -- that espouse violence -Mr. Melhem: Right.
President Obama: -- espouse terror and act on it -- and people who may disagree with my
Administration and certain actions, or may have a particular viewpoint in terms of how their
countries should develop. We can have legitimate disagreements
Mr. Melhem: True.
President Obama: -- but still be respectful. I cannot respect terrorist organizations that
would kill innocent civilians and we will hunt them down. But to the broader Muslim world
what we are going to be offering is a hand of friendship.
Mr. Melhem: Will the United States ever live with a nuclear Iran? And if not, how far are you
going in...the direction of preventing it?
President Obama: You know, I said during the campaign that it is very important for us to
make sure that we are using all the tools of U.S. power, including diplomacy, in our
relationship with Iran.
Now, the Iranian people are a great people. The Persian civilization is a great civilization. Iran
has acted in ways that's not conducive to peace and prosperity in the region -- their threats
against Israel, their pursuit of a nuclear weapon which could potentially set off a[n] arms race
in the region that would make everybody less safe; their support of terrorist organizations in
the past -- none of these things have been helpful.
But I do think that it is important for us to be willing to talk to Iran, to express very clearly
where our differences are, but where there are potential avenues for progress. And we will,
over the next several months, be laying out our general framework and approach. And as I
said during my inauguration speech, if countries like Iran are willing to unclench their fist,
they will find an extended hand from us.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. Melhem: Sir, I really appreciate it.
President Obama: Thank you so much.
Mr. Melhem: Thanks a lot.
President Obama: I appreciate it.
Mr. Melhem: Thank you.
President Obama: Thank you.

1

Boyle, Michael, 'The War on Terror in American Grand Strategy', International Affairs, 84, (March 2008), p196. (via Wikipedia)

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329942" filename="Barack_Obama_-_American_Israel_Public_Affairs_Committee.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20American%20Israel%20Public%20Affairs%20Committee.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at American-Israel Public Affairs Committee Conference

Delivered 22 May 2011, Walter E. Washington Convention Center, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning. Thank you very much. Good morning. Thank you. Thank you so much. Please,
have a seat. Thank you.
What a remarkable, remarkable crowd. Thank you, Rosy, for your very kind introduction. I did
not know you played basketball. I will take your word for it. Rosy, thank you for your many
years of friendship. Back in Chicago, when I was just getting started in national politics, I
reached out to a lot of people for advice and counsel, and Rosy was one of the very
first. When I made my first visit to Israel, after entering the Senate, Rosy, you were at my
side every step of that profound journey through the Holy Land. So I want to thank you for
your enduring friendship, your leadership, and for your warm introduction today.
I also want to thank David Victor, Howard Kohr and all the board of directors. And let me say
that it is wonderful to look out and see so many great friends, including a very large
delegation from Chicago. Alan Solow, Howard Green. Thank you all.
I want to thank the members of Congress who are joining you today -- who do so much to
sustain the bonds between the United States and Israel, including Eric Cantor -- Steny Hoyer - and the tireless leader I was proud to appoint as the new chair of the DNC, Debbie
Wasserman Schultz.
We’re joined by Israel’s representative to the United States, Ambassador Michael Oren. And
we’re joined by one of my top advisors on Israel and the Middle East for the past four years
and who I know is going to be an outstanding ambassador to Israel, Dan Shapiro. Dan has
always been a close and trusted advisor and friend, and I know that he will do a terrific job.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And at a time when so many young people around the world are standing up and making their
voices heard, I also want to acknowledge all the college students from across the country who
are here today. No one has a greater stake in the outcome of events that are unfolding today
than your generation, and it’s inspiring to see you devote your time and energy to help shape
that future.
Now, I’m not here to subject you to a long policy speech. I gave one on Thursday in which I
said that the United States sees the historic changes sweeping the Middle East and North
Africa as a moment of great challenge, but also a moment of opportunity for greater peace
and security for the entire region, including the State of Israel.
On Friday, I was joined at the White House by Prime Minister Netanyahu, and we reaffirmed -we reaffirmed that fundamental truth that has guided our presidents and prime ministers for
more than 60 years -- that even while we may at times disagree, as friends sometimes will,
the bonds between the United States and Israel are unbreakable -- and the commitment of
the United States to the security of Israel is ironclad.
A strong and secure Israel is in the national security interest of the United States not simply
because we share strategic interests, although we do both seek a region where families and
children can live free from the threat of violence. It’s not simply because we face common
dangers, although there can be no denying that terrorism and the spread of nuclear weapons
are grave threats to both our nations.
America’s commitment to Israel’s security flows from a deeper place -- and that’s the values
we share. As two people who struggled to win our freedom against overwhelming odds, we
understand that preserving the security for which our forefathers -- and foremothers -- fought
must be the work of every generation. As two vibrant democracies, we recognize that the
liberties and freedoms we cherish must be constantly nurtured. And as the nation that
recognized the State of Israel moments after its independence, we have a profound
commitment to its survival as a strong, secure homeland for the Jewish people.
We also know how difficult that search for security can be, especially for a small nation like
Israel living in a very tough neighborhood. I’ve seen it firsthand. When I touched my hand
against the Western Wall and placed my prayer between its ancient stones, I thought of all
the centuries that the children of Israel had longed to return to their ancient homeland. When
I went to Sderot and saw the daily struggle to survive in the eyes of an eight-year-old boy
who lost his leg to a Hamas rocket, and when I walked among the Hall of Names at Yad
Vashem, I was reminded of the existential fear of Israelis when a modern dictator seeks
nuclear weapons and threatens to wipe Israel off the face of the map -- face of the Earth.
Because we understand the challenges Israel faces, I and my Administration have made the
security of Israel a priority. It’s why we’ve increased cooperation between our militaries to
unprecedented levels. It’s why we’re making our most advanced technologies available to our
Israeli allies.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It’s why, despite tough fiscal times, we’ve increased foreign military financing to record
levels. And that includes additional support -- beyond regular military aid -– for the Iron
Dome anti-rocket system. A powerful example of American-Israeli cooperation -- a powerful
example of American-Israeli cooperation which has already intercepted rockets from Gaza and
helped saved Israeli lives. So make no mistake, we will maintain Israel’s qualitative military
edge.
You also see our commitment to our shared security in our determination to prevent Iran from
acquiring nuclear weapons. Here in the United States, we’ve imposed the toughest sanctions
ever on the Iranian regime. At the United Nations, under our leadership, we’ve secured the
most comprehensive international sanctions on the regime, which have been joined by allies
and partners around the world. Today, Iran is virtually cut off from large parts of the
international financial system, and we’re going to keep up the pressure. So let me be
absolutely clear -- we remain committed to preventing Iran from acquiring nuclear weapons.
Its illicit nuclear program is just one challenge that Iran poses. As I said on Thursday, the
Iranian government has shown its hypocrisy by claiming to support the rights of protesters
while treating its own people with brutality. Moreover, Iran continues to support terrorism
across the region, including providing weapons and funds to terrorist organizations. So we will
continue to work to prevent these actions, and we will stand up to groups like Hezbollah, who
exercise political assassination and seek to impose their will through rockets and car bombs.
You also see our commitment to Israel’s security in our steadfast opposition to any attempt to
de-legitimize the State of Israel. As I said at the United Nations last year, "Israel’s existence
must not be a subject for debate," and "efforts to chip away at Israel’s legitimacy will only be
met by the unshakeable opposition of the United States."
So when the Durban Review Conference advanced anti-Israel sentiment, we withdrew. In the
wake of the Goldstone Report, we stood up strongly for Israel’s right to defend itself. When an
effort was made to insert the United Nations into matters that should be resolved through
direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians, we vetoed it.
And so, in both word and deed, we have been unwavering in our support of Israel’s
security. And it is precisely because of our commitment to Israel’s long-term security that we
have worked to advance peace between Israelis and Palestinians.
Now, I have said repeatedly that core issues can only be negotiated in direct talks between
the parties. And I indicated on Thursday that the recent agreement between Fatah and Hamas
poses an enormous obstacle to peace. No country can be expected to negotiate with a
terrorist organization sworn to its destruction. And we will continue to demand that Hamas
accept the basic responsibilities of peace, including recognizing Israel’s right to exist and
rejecting violence and adhering to all existing agreements. And we once again call on Hamas
to release Gilad Shalit, who has been kept from his family for five long years.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And yet, no matter how hard it may be to start meaningful negotiations under current
circumstances, we must acknowledge that a failure to try is not an option. The status quo is
unsustainable. And that is why on Thursday I stated publicly the principles that the United
States believes can provide a foundation for negotiations toward an agreement to end the
conflict and all claims -- the broad outlines of which have been known for many years, and
have been the template for discussions between the United States, Israel, and the Palestinians
since at least the Clinton administration.
I know that stating these principles -- on the issues of territory and security -- generated
some controversy over the past few days. I wasn’t surprised. I know very well that the easy
thing to do, particularly for a President preparing for reelection, is to avoid any controversy. I
don’t need Rahm to tell me that. Don’t need Axelrod to tell me that. But I said to Prime
Minister Netanyahu, I believe that the current situation in the Middle East does not allow for
procrastination. I also believe that real friends talk openly and honestly with one another. So I
want to share with you some of what I said to the Prime Minister.
Here are the facts we all must confront. First, the number of Palestinians living west of the
Jordan River is growing rapidly and fundamentally reshaping the demographic realities of both
Israel and the Palestinian Territories. This will make it harder and harder -- without a peace
deal -- to maintain Israel as both a Jewish state and a democratic state.
Second, technology will make it harder for Israel to defend itself in the absence of a genuine
peace.
Third, a new generation of Arabs is reshaping the region. A just and lasting peace can no
longer be forged with one or two Arab leaders. Going forward, millions of Arab citizens have
to see that peace is possible for that peace to be sustained.
And just as the context has changed in the Middle East, so too has it been changing in the
international community over the last several years. There’s a reason why the Palestinians are
pursuing their interests at the United Nations. They recognize that there is an impatience with
the peace process, or the absence of one, not just in the Arab World -- in Latin America, in
Asia, and in Europe. And that impatience is growing, and it’s already manifesting itself in
capitals around the world.
And those are the facts. I firmly believe, and I repeated on Thursday, that peace cannot be
imposed on the parties to the conflict. No vote at the United Nations will ever create an
independent Palestinian state. And the United States will stand up against efforts to single
Israel out at the United Nations or in any international forum. Israel’s legitimacy is not a
matter for debate. That is my commitment; that is my pledge to all of you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Moreover, we know that peace demands a partner –- which is why I said that Israel cannot be
expected to negotiate with Palestinians who do not recognize its right to exist. And we will
hold the Palestinians accountable for their actions and for their rhetoric.
But the march to isolate Israel internationally -- and the impulse of the Palestinians to
abandon negotiations –- will continue to gain momentum in the absence of a credible peace
process and alternative. And for us to have leverage with the Palestinians, to have leverage
with the Arab States and with the international community, the basis for negotiations has to
hold out the prospect of success. And so, in advance of a five-day trip to Europe in which the
Middle East will be a topic of acute interest, I chose to speak about what peace will require.
There was nothing particularly original in my proposal; this basic framework for negotiations
has long been the basis for discussions among the parties, including previous U.S.
administrations. Since questions have been raised, let me repeat what I actually said on
Thursday -- not what I was reported to have said.
I said that the United States believes that negotiations should result in two states, with
permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, and permanent Israeli borders
with Palestine. The borders of Israel and Palestine should be based on the 1967 lines with
mutually agreed swaps -- so that secure and recognized borders are established for both
states. The Palestinian people must have the right to govern themselves, and reach their
potential, in a sovereign and contiguous state.
As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be able to defend
itself –- by itself -– against any threat. Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a
resurgence of terrorism, to stop the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border
security. And a full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with
the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign and non-militarized
state. And the duration of this transition period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of
security arrangements must be demonstrated.
Now, that is what I said. And it was my reference to the 1967 lines -- with mutually agreed
swaps -- that received the lion’s share of the attention, including just now. And since my
position has been misrepresented several times, let me reaffirm what “1967 lines with
mutually agreed swaps” means.
By definition, it means that the parties themselves -– Israelis and Palestinians -– will
negotiate a border that is different than the one that existed on June 4, 1967. That’s what
mutually agreed-upon swaps means. It is a well-known formula to all who have worked on
this issue for a generation. It allows the parties themselves to account for the changes that
have taken place over the last 44 years. It allows the parties themselves to take account of
those changes, including the new demographic realities on the ground, and the needs of both
sides.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
The ultimate goal is two states for two people: Israel as a Jewish state and the homeland for
the Jewish people -- and the State of Palestine as the homeland for the Palestinian people -each state in joined self-determination, mutual recognition, and peace.
If there is a controversy, then, it’s not based in substance. What I did on Thursday was to say
publicly what has long been acknowledged privately. I’ve done so because we can’t afford to
wait another decade, or another two decades, or another three decades to achieve peace. The
world is moving too fast. The world is moving too fast. The extraordinary challenges facing
Israel will only grow. Delay will undermine Israel’s security and the peace that the Israeli
people deserve.
Now, I know that some of you will disagree with this assessment. I respect that. And as fellow
Americans and friends of Israel, I know we can have this discussion. Ultimately, it is the right
and the responsibility of the Israeli government to make the hard choices that are necessary
to protect a Jewish and democratic state for which so many generations have sacrificed. And
as a friend of Israel, I’m committed to doing our part to see that this goal is realized. And I
will call not just on Israel, but on the Palestinians, on the Arab States, and the international
community to join us in this effort, because the burden of making hard choices must not be
Israel’s alone.
But even as we do all that’s necessary to ensure Israel’s security, even as we are clear-eyed
about the difficult challenges before us, and even as we pledge to stand by Israel through
whatever tough days lie ahead, I hope we do not give up on that vision of peace. For if history
teaches us anything, if the story of Israel teaches us anything, it is that with courage and
resolve, progress is possible. Peace is possible.
The Talmud teaches us that, "So long as a person still has life, they should never abandon
faith." And that lesson seems especially fitting today.
For so long as there are those across the Middle East and beyond who are standing up for the
legitimate rights and freedoms which have been denied by their governments, the United
States will never abandon our support for those rights that are universal.
And so long as there are those who long for a better future, we will never abandon our pursuit
of a just and lasting peace that ends this conflict with two states living side by side in peace
and security. This is not idealism; it is not naïveté. It is a hard-headed recognition that a
genuine peace is the only path that will ultimately provide for a peaceful Palestine as the
homeland of the Palestinian people and a Jewish state of Israel as the homeland of the Jewish
people. That is my goal, and I look forward to continuing to work with AIPAC to achieve that
goal.
Thank you. God bless you. God bless Israel, and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329678" filename="Barack_Obama_-_American_Medical_Association.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20American%20Medical%20Association.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech to the American Medical Association
delivered 15 June 2009, Hyatt Regency, Chicago, Illinois

Thank you so much. Please, everybody, be seated. Thank you very much. You're very kind.
Thank you.
Let me begin by thanking Nancy for the wonderful introduction. I want to thank Dr. Joseph
Heyman, the chair of the Board of Trustees, as well as Dr. Jeremy Lazarus, speaker of House
of Delegates. Thanks to all of you for bringing me home, even if it's just for a day.
From the moment I took office as President, the central challenge we've confronted as a
nation has been the need to lift ourselves out of the worst recession since World War II. In
recent months, we've taken a series of extraordinary steps, not just to repair the immediate
damage to our economy, but to build a new foundation for lasting and sustained growth.
We're here to create new jobs, to unfreeze our credit markets. We're stemming the loss of
homes and the decline of home values.
All this is important. But even as we've made progress, we know that the road to prosperity
remains long and it remains difficult. And we also know that one essential step on our journey
is to control the spiraling cost of health care in America. And in order to do that, we're going
to need the help of the AMA.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Today, we are spending over $2 trillion a year on health care -- almost 50 percent more per
person than the next most costly nation. And yet, as I think many of you are aware, for all of
this spending, more of our citizens are uninsured, the quality of our care is often lower, and
we aren't any healthier. In fact, citizens in some countries that spend substantially less than
we do are actually living longer than we do.
Make no mistake: The cost of our health care is a threat to our economy. It's an escalating
burden on our families and businesses. It's a ticking time bomb for the federal budget. And it
is unsustainable for the United States of America.
It's unsustainable for Americans like Laura Klitzka, a young mother that I met in Wisconsin
just last week, who's learned that the breast cancer she thought she'd beaten had spread to
her bones, but who's now being forced to spend time worrying about how to cover the
$50,000 in medical debts she's already accumulated, worried about future debts that she's
going to accumulate, when all she wants to do is spend time with her two children and focus
on getting well. These are not the worries that a woman like Laura should have to face in a
nation as wealthy as ours.
Stories like Laura's are being told by women and men all across this country -- by families
who've seen out-of-pocket costs soar, and premiums double over the last decade at a rate
three times faster than wages. This is forcing Americans of all ages to go without the
checkups or the prescriptions they need -- that you know they need. It's creating a situation
where a single illness can wipe out a lifetime of savings.
Our costly health care system is unsustainable for doctors like Michael Kahn in New
Hampshire, who, as he puts it, spends 20 percent of each day supervising a staff explaining
insurance problems to patients, completing authorization forms, writing appeal letters -- a
routine that he calls disruptive and distracting, giving him less time to do what he became a
doctor to do and actually care for his patients.
Small business owners like Chris and Becky Link in Nashville are also struggling. They've
always wanted to do right by the workers at their family-run marketing firm, but they've
recently had to do the unthinkable and lay off a number of employees -- layoffs that could
have been deferred, they say, if health care costs weren't so high. Across the country, over
one-third of small businesses have reduced benefits in recent years and one-third have
dropped their workers' coverage altogether since the early '90s.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Our largest companies are suffering, as well. A big part of what led General Motors and
Chrysler into trouble in recent decades were the huge costs they racked up providing health
care for their workers -- costs that made them less profitable and less competitive with
automakers around the world. If we do not fix our health care system, America may go the
way of GM -- paying more, getting less, and going broke.
When it comes to the cost of our health care, then, the status quo is unsustainable. So reform
is not a luxury; it is a necessity. When I hear people say, well, why are you taking this on
right now, you've got all these other problems, I keep on reminding people I'd love to be able
to defer these issues, but we can't. I know there's been much discussion about what reform
would cost, and rightly so. This is a test of whether we -- Democrats and Republicans alike -are serious about holding the line on new spending and restoring fiscal discipline.
But let there be no doubt -- the cost of inaction is greater. If we fail to act -- if we fail to act -and you know this because you see it in your own individual practices -- if we fail to act,
premiums will climb higher, benefits will erode further, the rolls of the uninsured will swell to
include millions more Americans -- all of which will affect your practice.
If we fail to act, one out of every five dollars we earn will be spent on health care within a
decade. And in 30 years, it will be about one out of every three -- a trend that will mean lost
jobs, lower take-home pay, shuttered businesses, and a lower standard of living for all
Americans.
And if we fail to act, federal spending on Medicaid and Medicare will grow over the coming
decades by an amount almost equal to the amount our government currently spends on our
nation's defense. It will, in fact, eventually grow larger than what our government spends on
anything else today. It's a scenario that will swamp our federal and state budgets, and impose
a vicious choice of either unprecedented tax hikes, or overwhelming deficits, or drastic cuts in
our federal and state budgets.
So to say it as plainly as I can, health care is the single most important thing we can do for
America's long-term fiscal health. That is a fact. That's a fact.
It's a fact, and the truth is most people know that it's a fact. And yet, as clear as it is that our
system badly needs reform, reform is not inevitable. There's a sense out there among some,
and perhaps some members who are gathered here today of the AMA, that as bad as our
current system may be -- and it's pretty bad -- the devil we know is better than the devil we

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
don't. There's a fear of change -- a worry that we may lose what works about our health care
system while trying to fix what doesn't.
I'm here to tell you I understand that fear. And I understand the cynicism. They're scars left
over from past efforts at reform. After all, Presidents have called for health care reform for
nearly a century. Teddy Roosevelt called for it. Harry Truman called for it. Richard Nixon
called for it. Jimmy Carter called for it. Bill Clinton called for it. But while significant individual
reforms have been made -- such as Medicare, Medicaid, and the Children's Health Insurance
Program -- efforts at comprehensive reform that covers everyone and brings down costs have
largely failed.
Part of the reason is because the different groups involved -- doctors, insurance companies,
businesses, workers, and others -- simply couldn't agree on the need for reform or what
shape it would take. And if we're honest, another part of the reason has been the fierce
opposition fueled by some interest groups and lobbyists -- opposition that has used fear
tactics to paint any effort to achieve reform as an attempt to, yes, socialize medicine.
And despite this long history of failure, I'm standing here because I think we're in a different
time.
One sign that things are different is that just this past week, the Senate passed a bill that will
protect children from the dangers of smoking, a reform the AMA has long championed -- this
organization long championed; it went nowhere when it was proposed a decade ago -- I'm
going to sign this into law.
Now, what makes this moment different is that this time -- for the first time -- key
stakeholders are aligning not against, but in favor of reform. They're coming out -- they're
coming together out of a recognition that while reform will take everyone in our health care
community to do their part -- everybody is going to have to pitch in -- ultimately, everybody
will benefit.
And I want to commend the AMA, in particular, for offering to do your part to curb costs and
achieve reform. Just a week ago, you joined together with hospitals, labor unions, insurers,
medical device manufacturers and drug companies to do something that would have been
unthinkable just a few years ago -- you promised to work together to cut national health care
spending by $2 trillion over the next decade, relative to what it would have otherwise been.
And that will bring down costs; that will bring down premiums. That's exactly the kind of
cooperation we need, and we appreciate that very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Thank you.
Now, the question is how do we finish the job? How do we permanently bring down costs and
make quality, affordable health care available to every single American? That's what I've come
to talk about today. We know the moment is right for health care reform. We know this is a
historic opportunity we've never seen before and may not see again. But we also know that
there are those who will try and scuttle this opportunity no matter what -- who will use the
same scare tactics and fear-mongering that's worked in the past; who will give warnings
about socialized medicine and government takeovers, long lines and rationed care, decisions
made by bureaucrats and not doctors. We have heard this all before. And because these fear
tactics have worked, things have kept getting worse.
So let me begin by saying this to you and to the American people: I know that there are
millions of Americans who are content with their health care coverage -- they like their plan
and, most importantly, they value their relationship with their doctor. They trust you. And that
means that no matter how we reform health care, we will keep this promise to the American
people: If you like your doctor, you will be able to keep your doctor, period. If you like your
health care plan, you'll be able to keep your health care plan, period. No one will take it away,
no matter what. My view is that health care reform should be guided by a simple principle: Fix
what's broken and build on what works. And that's what we intend to do.
If we do that, we can build a health care system that allows you to be physicians instead of
administrators and accountants; a system that gives Americans -- a system that gives
Americans the best care at the lowest cost; a system that eases up the pressure on
businesses and unleashes the promise of our economy, creating hundreds of thousands of
jobs, making take-home wages thousands of dollars higher, and growing our economy by tens
of billions of dollars more every year.
That's how we'll stop spending tax dollars to prop up an unsustainable system, and start
investing those dollars in innovations and advances that will make our health care system and
our economy stronger. That's what we can do with this opportunity. And that's what we must
do with this moment.
Now, the good news is that in some instances, there's already widespread agreement on the
steps necessary to make our health care system work better. First, we need to upgrade our
medical records by switching from a paper to an electronic system of record keeping. And
we've already begun to do this with an investment we made as part of our Recovery Act.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
It simply doesn't make sense that patients in the 21st century are still filling out forms with
pens on papers that have to be stored away somewhere. As Newt Gingrich has rightly pointed
out -- and I don't quote Newt Gingrich that often -- we do a better job tracking a FedEx
package in this country than we do tracking patients' health records.
You shouldn't have to tell every new doctor you see about your medical history or what
prescriptions you're taking. You shouldn't have to repeat costly tests. All that information
should be stored securely in a private medical record so that your information can be tracked
from one doctor to another -- even if you change jobs, even if you move, even if you have to
see a number of different specialists. That's just common sense.
And that will not only mean less paper-pushing and lower administrative costs, saving
taxpayers billions of dollars; it will also mean all of you physicians will have an easier time
doing your jobs. It will tell you, the doctors, what drugs a patient is taking so you can avoid
prescribing a medication that could cause a harmful interaction. It will prevent the wrong
dosages from going to a patient. It will reduce medical errors, it's estimated, that lead to
100,000 lives lost unnecessarily in our hospitals every year.
So there shouldn't be an argument there. And we want to make sure that we're helping
providers computerize so that we can get this system up and running.
The second step that we can all agree on is to invest more in preventive care so we can avoid
illness and disease in the first place. That starts with each of us taking more responsibility for
our health and for the health of our children. It means quitting smoking. It means going in for
that mammogram or colon cancer screening. It means going for a run or hitting the gym, and
raising our children to step away from the video games and spend more time playing outside.
It also means cutting down on all the junk food that's fueling an epidemic of obesity -- which
puts far too many Americans, young and old, at greater risk of costly, chronic conditions.
That's a lesson Michelle and I have tried to instill in our daughters. As some of you know, we
started a White House vegetable garden. I say "we" generously, because Michelle has done
most of the work. That's a lesson that we should work with local school districts to incorporate
into their school lunch programs.
Building a health care system that promotes prevention rather than just managing diseases
will require all of us to do our parts. It will take doctors telling us what risk factors we should
avoid and what preventive measures we should pursue. It will take employers following the

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
example of places like Safeway that is rewarding workers for taking better care of their health
while reducing health care costs in the process.
If you're one of three-quarters of Safeway workers enrolled in their "Healthy Measures"
program, you can get screened for problems like high cholesterol or high blood pressure. And
if you score well, you can pay lower premiums; you get more money in your paycheck. It's a
program that has helped Safeway cut health care spending by 13 percent, and workers save
over 20 percent on their premiums. And we're open to doing more to help employers adopt
and expand programs like this one.
Our federal government also has to step up its efforts to advance the cause of healthy living.
Five of the costliest illnesses and conditions -- cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, lung
disease, and strokes -- can be prevented. And yet only a fraction of every health care dollar
goes to prevention or public health. And that's starting to change with an investment we're
making in prevention and wellness programs that can help us avoid disease that harm our
health and the health of our economy.
But as important as they are, investments in electronic records and preventive care, all the
things that I've just mentioned, they're just preliminary steps. They will only make a dent in
the epidemic of rising costs in this country.
Despite what some have suggested, the reason we have these spiraling costs is not simply
because we've got an aging population; demographics do account for part of rising costs
because older, sicker societies pay more on health care than younger, healthier ones, and
there's nothing intrinsically wrong in us taking better care of ourselves. But what accounts for
the bulk of our costs is the nature of our health care delivery system itself -- a system where
we spend vast amounts of money on things that aren't necessarily making our people any
healthier; a system that automatically equates more expensive care with better care.
Now, a recent article in the New Yorker, for example, showed how McAllen, Texas, is spending
twice as much as El Paso County -- twice as much -- not because people in McAllen, Texas,
are sicker than they are in El Paso; not because they're getting better care or getting better
outcomes.
It's simply because they're using more treatments -- treatments that, in some cases, they
don't really need; treatments that, in some cases, can actually do people harm by raising the
risk of infection or medical error.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
And the problem is this pattern is repeating itself across America. One Dartmouth study shows
that you're less likely -- you're no less likely to die from a heart attack and other ailments in a
higher-spending area than in a lower-spending one.
There are two main reasons for this. The first is a system of incentives where the more tests
and services are provided, the more money we pay. And a lot of people in this room know
what I'm talking about. It's a model that rewards the quantity of care rather than the quality
of care; that pushes you, the doctor, to see more and more patients even if you can't spend
much time with each, and gives you every incentive to order that extra MRI or EKG, even if
it's not necessary. It's a model that has taken the pursuit of medicine from a profession -- a
calling -- to a business.
That's not why you became doctors. That's not why you put in all those hours in the Anatomy
Suite or the O.R. That's not what brings you back to a patient's bedside to check in, or makes
you call a loved one of a patient to say it will be fine. You didn't enter this profession to be
bean-counters and paper-pushers. You entered this profession to be healers. And that's what
our health care system should let you be. That's what this health care system should let you
be.
Now, that starts with reforming the way we compensate our providers -- doctors and
hospitals. We need to bundle payments so you aren't paid for every single treatment you offer
a patient with a chronic condition like diabetes, but instead paid well for how you treat the
overall disease. We need to create incentives for physicians to team up, because we know that
when that happens, it results in a healthier patient. We need to give doctors bonuses for good
health outcomes, so we're not promoting just more treatment, but better care.
And we need to rethink the cost of a medical education, and do more to reward medical
students who choose a career as a primary care physician -- who choose to work in
underserved areas instead of the more lucrative paths. That's why we're making a substantial
investment in the National Health Service Corps that will make medical training more
affordable for primary care doctors and nurse practitioners so they aren't drowning in debt
when they enter the workforce. Somebody back there is drowning in debt.
The second structural reform we need to make is to improve the quality of medical
information making its way to doctors and patients. We have the best medical schools, the
most sophisticated labs, the most advanced training of any nation on the globe. Yet we're not
doing a very good job harnessing our collective knowledge and experience on behalf of better
medicine.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Less than 1 percent of our health care spending goes to examining what treatments are most
effective -- less than 1 percent. And even when that information finds its way into journals, it
can take up to 17 years to find its way to an exam room or operating table. As a result, too
many doctors and patients are making decisions without the benefit of the latest research.
A recent study, for example, found that only half of all cardiac guidelines are based on
scientific evidence -- half.
That means doctors may be doing a bypass operation when placing a stent is equally
effective; or placing a stent when adjusting a patient's drug and medical management is
equally effective -- all of which drives up costs without improving a patient's health.
So one thing we need to do is to figure out what works, and encourage rapid implementation
of what works into your practices. That's why we're making a major investment in research to
identify the best treatments for a variety of ailments and conditions.
Now, let me be clear -- I just want to clear something up here -- identifying what works is not
about dictating what kind of care should be provided. It's about providing patients and doctors
with the information they need to make the best medical decisions. See, I have the
assumption that if you have good information about what makes your patients well, that's
what you're going to do. I have confidence in that. We're not going to need to force you to do
it. We just need to make sure you've got the best information available.
Still, even when we do know what works, we are often not making the most of it. And that's
why we need to build on the examples of outstanding medicine at places like the Cincinnati
Children's Hospital, where the quality of care for cystic fibrosis patients shot up after the
hospital began incorporating suggestions from parents. And places like Tallahassee Memorial
Health Care, where deaths were dramatically reduced with rapid response teams that
monitored patients' conditions, and "multidisciplinary rounds" with everyone from physicians
to pharmacists. And places like Geisinger Health System in rural Pennsylvania, and
Intermountain Health in Salt Lake City, where high-quality care is being provided at a cost
well below the national average. These are all islands of excellence that we need to make the
standard in our health care system.
So replicating best practices, incentivizing excellence, closing cost disparities -- any legislation
sent to my desk that does not these -- does not achieve these goals in my mind does not earn
the title of reform.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
But my signature on a bill is not enough. I need your help, doctors, because to most
Americans you are the health care system. The fact is Americans -- and I include myself and
Michelle and our kids in this -- we just do what you tell us to do. That's what we do. We listen
to you, we trust you. And that's why I will listen to you and work with you to pursue reform
that works for you.
Together, if we take all these steps, I am convinced we can bring spending down, bring
quality up; we can save hundreds of billions of dollars on health care costs while making our
health care system work better for patients and doctors alike. And when we align the interests
of patients and doctors, then we're going to be in a good place.
Now, I recognize that it will be hard to make some of these changes if doctors feel like they're
constantly looking over their shoulders for fear of lawsuits. I recognize that. Don't get too
excited yet.
Now, I understand some doctors may feel the need to order more tests and treatments to
avoid being legally vulnerable. That's a real issue. Now, just hold on to your horses here,
guys. I want to be honest with you. I'm not advocating caps on malpractice awards -- which I
personally believe can be unfair to people who've been wrongfully harmed.
But I do think we need to explore a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first; how
to let doctors focus on practicing medicine; how to encourage broader use of evidence-based
guidelines. I want to work with the AMA so we can scale back the excessive defensive
medicine that reinforces our current system, and shift to a system where we are providing
better care, simply -- rather than simply more treatment.
So this is going to be a priority for me. And I know, based on your responses, it's a priority for
you. And I look forward to working with you. And it's going to be difficult. But all this stuff is
going to be difficult. All of it's going to be important.
Now, I know this has been a long speech, but we got more to do. The changes that I have
already spoken about, all that is going to need to go hand-in-hand with other reforms.
Because our health care system is so complex and medicine is always evolving, we need a
way to continually evaluate how we can eliminate waste, reduce costs, and improve quality.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's why I'm open to expanding the role of a commission created by a Republican Congress
called the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, which happens to include a number of
physicians on the commission. In recent years, this commission proposed roughly $200 billion
in savings that never made it into law. These recommendations have now been incorporated
into our broader reform agenda, but we need to fast-track their proposals, the commission's
proposals, in the future so that we don't miss another opportunity to save billions of dollars,
as we gain more information about what works and what doesn't work in our health care
system.
And as we seek to contain the cost of health care, we also have to ensure that every American
can get coverage they can afford. We must do so in part because it's in all of our economic
interests. Each time an uninsured American steps foot into an emergency room with no way to
reimburse the hospital for care, the cost is handed over to every American family as a bill of
about $1,000 that's reflected in higher taxes, higher premiums, and higher health care costs.
It's a hidden tax, a hidden bill that will be cut as we insure all Americans. And as we insure
every young and healthy American, it will spread out risk for insurance companies, further
reducing costs for everyone.
But alongside these economic arguments, there's another, more powerful one. And it is simply
this: We are not a nation that accepts nearly 46 million uninsured men, women and children.
We are not a nation that lets hardworking families go without coverage, or turns its back on
those in need. We're a nation that cares for its citizens. We look out for one another. That's
what makes us the United States of America. We need to get this done.
So we need to do a few things to provide affordable health insurance to every single
American. The first thing we need to do is to protect what's working in our health care
system. So just in case you didn't catch it the first time, let me repeat: If you like your health
care system and your doctor, the only thing reform will mean to you is your health care will
cost less. If anyone says otherwise, they are either trying to mislead you or don't have their
facts straight.
Now, if you don't like your health care coverage or you don't have any insurance at all, you'll
have a chance, under what we've proposed, to take part in what we're calling a Health
Insurance Exchange. This exchange will allow you to one-stop shop for a health care plan,
compare benefits and prices, and choose a plan that's best for you and your family -- the
same way, by the way, that federal employees can do, from a postal worker to a member of
Congress. You will have your choice of a number of plans that offer a few different packages,
but every plan would offer an affordable, basic package.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Again, this is for people who aren't happy with their current plan. If you like what you're
getting, keep it. Nobody is forcing you to shift. But if you're not, this gives you some new
options. And I believe one of these options needs to be a public option that will give people a
broader range of choices -- and inject competition into the health care market so that force -so that we can force waste out of the system and keep the insurance companies honest.
Now, I know that there's some concern about a public option. Even within this organization
there's healthy debate about it. In particular, I understand that you're concerned that today's
Medicare rates, which many of you already feel are too low, will be applied broadly in a way
that means our cost savings are coming off your backs.
And these are legitimate concerns, but they're ones, I believe, that can be overcome. As I
stated earlier, the reforms we propose to reimbursement are to reward best practices, focus
on patient care, not on the current piecework reimbursements. What we seek is more stability
and a health care system that's on a sounder financial footing.
And the fact is these reforms need to take place regardless of whether there's a public option
or not. With reform, we will ensure that you are being reimbursed in a thoughtful way that's
tied to patient outcomes, instead of relying on yearly negotiations about the Sustainable
Growth Rate formula that's based on politics and the immediate state of the federal budget in
any given year.
And I just want to point out the alternative to such reform is a world where health care costs
grow at an unsustainable rate. And if you don't think that's going to threaten your
reimbursements and the stability of our health care system, you haven't been paying
attention.
So the public option is not your enemy; it is your friend, I believe.
Let me also say that -- let me also address a illegitimate concern that's being put forward by
those who are claiming that a public option is somehow a Trojan horse for a single-payer
system. I'll be honest; there are countries where a single-payer system works pretty well. But
I believe -- and I've taken some flak from members of my own party for this belief -- that it's
important for our reform efforts to build on our traditions here in the United States. So when
you hear the naysayers claim that I'm trying to bring about government-run health care,
know this: They're not telling the truth.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
What I am trying to do -- and what a public option will help do -- is put affordable health care
within reach for millions of Americans. And to help ensure that everyone can afford the cost of
a health care option in our exchange, we need to provide assistance to families who need it.
That way, there will be no reason at all for anyone to remain uninsured.
Indeed, it's because I'm confident in our ability to give people the ability to get insurance at
an affordable rate that I'm open to a system where every American bears responsibility for
owning health insurance -- so long as we provide a hardship waiver for those who still can't
afford it as we move towards this system.
The same is true for employers. While I believe every business has a responsibility to provide
health insurance for its workers, small businesses that can't afford it should receive an
exemption. And small business workers and their families will be able to seek coverage in the
exchange if their employer is not able to provide it.
Now, here's some good news. Insurance companies have expressed support for the idea of
covering the uninsured and they certainly are in favor of a mandate. I welcome their
willingness to engage constructively in the reform debate. I'm glad they're at the table. But
what I refuse to do is simply create a system where insurance companies suddenly have a
whole bunch of more customers on Uncle Sam's dime, but still fail to meet their
responsibilities. We're not going to do that.
Let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. We need to end the practice of
denying coverage on the basis of preexisting conditions. The days of cherry-picking who to
cover and who to deny, those days are over. I know you see it in your practices, and how
incredibly painful and frustrating it is -- you want to give somebody care and you find out that
the insurance companies are wiggling out of paying.
This is personal for me also. I've told this story before. I'll never forget watching my own
mother, as she fought cancer in her final days, spending time worrying about whether her
insurer would claim her illness was a preexisting condition so it could get out of providing
coverage. Changing the current approach to preexisting conditions is the least we can do -for my mother and for every other mother, father, son, and daughter, who has suffered under
this practice, who've been paying premiums and don't get care. We need to put health care
within the reach for millions of Americans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, even if we accept all of the economic and moral reasons for providing affordable
coverage to all Americans, there is no denying that expanding coverage will come at a cost, at
least in the short run. But it is a cost that will not -- I repeat -- will not add to our deficits. I've
set down a rule for my staff, for my team -- and I've said this to Congress -- health care
reform must be, and will be, deficit-neutral in the next decade.
Now, there are already voices saying the numbers don't add up. They're wrong. Here's why.
Making health care affordable for all Americans will cost somewhere on the order of $1 trillion
over the next 10 years. That's real money, even in Washington. But remember, that's less
than we are projected to have spent on the war in Iraq. And also remember, failing to reform
our health care system in a way that genuinely reduces cost growth will cost us trillions of
dollars more in lost economic growth and lower wages.
That said, let me explain how we will cover the price tag. First, as part of the budget that was
passed a few months ago, we put aside $635 billion over 10 years in what we're calling a
Health Reserve Fund. Over half of that amount -- more than $300 billion -- will come from
raising revenue by doing things like modestly limiting the tax deductions the wealthiest
Americans can take to the same level that it was at the end of the Reagan years -- same level
that it was under Ronald Reagan. Some are concerned that this will dramatically reduce
charitable giving, for example, but statistics show that's not true. And the best thing for our
charities is the stronger economy that we will build with health care reform.
But we can't just raise revenues. We're also going to have to make spending cuts, in part by
examining inefficiencies in our current Medicare program. There are going to be robust
debates about where these cuts should be made, and I welcome that debate. But here's
where I think these cuts should be made.
First, we should end overpayments to Medicare Advantage. Today, we're paying Medicare
Advantage plans much more than we pay for traditional Medicare services. Now, this is a good
deal for insurance companies. It's a subsidy to insurance companies. It's not a good deal for
you. It's not a good deal for the American people. And by the way, it doesn't follow free
market principles, for those who are always talking about free market principles. That's why
we need to introduce competitive bidding into the Medicare Advantage program, a program
under which private insurance companies are offering Medicare coverage. That alone will save
$177 billion over the next decade, just that one step.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
Second, we need to use Medicare reimbursements to reduce preventable hospital
readmissions. Right now, almost 20 percent of Medicare patients discharged from hospitals
are readmitted within a month, often because they're not getting the comprehensive care that
they need. This puts people at risk; it drives up cost. By changing how Medicare reimburses
hospitals, we can discourage them from acting in a way that boosts profits but drives up costs
for everyone else. That will save us $25 billion over the next decade.
Third, we need to introduce generic biologic drugs into the marketplace.These are drugs used
to treat illnesses like anemia. But right now, there is no pathway at the FDA for approving
generic versions of these drugs. Creating such a pathway will save us billions of dollars. We
can save another roughly $30 billion by getting a better deal for our poorer seniors while
asking our well-off seniors to pay a little more for their drugs.
So that's the bulk of what's in the Health Reserve Fund. I've also proposed saving another
$313 billion in Medicare and Medicaid spending in several other ways. One way is by adjusting
Medicare payments to reflect new advances and productivity gains in our economy. Right now,
Medicare payments are rising each year by more than they should. These adjustments will
create incentives for providers to deliver care more efficiently, and save us roughly $109
billion in the process.
Another way we can achieve savings is by reducing payments to hospitals for treating
uninsured people. I know hospitals rely on these payments now, legitimately, because of the
large number of uninsured patients that they treat. But if we put in a system where people
have coverage and the number of uninsured people goes down with our reforms, the amount
we pay hospitals to treat uninsured people should go down, as well. Reducing these payments
gradually, as more and more people have coverage, will save us over $106 billion. And we'll
make sure the difference goes to the hospitals that need it most.
We can also save about $75 billion through more efficient purchasing of prescription drugs.
And we can save about $1 billion more by rooting out waste, abuse, fraud throughout our
health care system so that no one is charging more for a service than it's worth or charging a
dime for a service that they don't provide.
Let me be clear: I'm committed to making these cuts in a way that protects our senior
citizens. In fact, these proposals will actually extend the life of the Medicare Trust Fund by
seven years, and reduce premiums for Medicare beneficiaries by roughly $43 billion over the
next 10 years. And I'm working with AARP to uphold that commitment.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, for those of you who took out your pencil and paper -- altogether, these savings mean
that we've put about $950 billion on the table -- and that doesn't count some of the long-term
savings that we think will come about from reform -- from medical IT, for example, or
increased investment in prevention. So that stuff in congressional jargon is not scorable; the
Congressional Budget Office won't count that as savings, so we're setting that aside. We think
that's going to come, but even separate and far from that, we've put $950 billion on the table,
taking us almost all the way to covering the full cost of health care reform.
In the weeks and months ahead, I look forward to working with Congress to make up the
difference so that health care reform is fully paid for -- in a real, accountable way. And let me
add that this does not count longer-term savings. I just want to repeat that.
By insisting that the reforms that we're introducing are deficit-neutral over the next decade,
and by making the reforms that will help slow the growth rate of health care costs over the
coming decades -- bending the curve -- we can look forward to faster economic growth,
higher living standards, and falling, instead of rising, budget deficits.
Now, let me just wrap up by saying this. I know people are cynical whether we can do this or
not. I know there will be disagreements about how to proceed in the days ahead. There's
probably healthy debate within the AMA. That's good. I also know this: We can't let this
moment pass us by.
You know, the other day, a friend of mine, Congressman Earl Blumenauer, handed me a
magazine with a special issue titled, "The Crisis in American Medicine." One article notes
"soaring charges." Another warns about the "volume of utilization of services." Another asks if
we can find a "better way than fee-for-service for paying for medical care." It speaks to many
of the challenges we face today. The thing is, this special issue was published by Harper's
Magazine in October of 1960 -- before I was born.
Members of the American Medical Association, and my fellow Americans, I'm here today
because I don't want our children and their children to still be speaking of a crisis in American
medicine 50 years from now. I don't want them to still be suffering from spiraling costs that
we did not stem, or sicknesses that we did not cure. I don't want them to be burdened with
massive deficits we did not curb or a worsening economy that we did not rebuild.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
I want them to benefit from a health care system that works for all of us; where families can
open a doctor's bill without dreading what's inside; where parents are talking to their kids and
getting them to get regular checkups, and testing themselves for preventable ailments; where
parents are feeding their kids healthier food and kids are exercising more; where patients are
spending more time with their doctors, and doctors can pull up on a computer all the medical
information and latest research they'll ever want to know to meet patients' needs; where
orthopedists and nephrologists and oncologists are all working together to treat a single
human being; where what's best about America's health care system has become the
hallmark of America's health care system.
That's the health care system we can build. That's the future I'm convinced is within our
reach.
And if we're willing to come together and bring about that future, then we will not only make
Americans healthier, we will not only unleash America's economic potential, but we will
reaffirm the ideals that led you into this noble profession and we'll build a health care system
that lets all Americans heal.
Thank you very much, AMA. Appreciate it, thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 17
</doc>
<doc id="file32329938" filename="Barack_Obama_and_Benyamin_Netanyahu_Joint_Remarks.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20and%20Benyamin%20Netanyahu%20Joint%20Remarks.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Joint Remarks to the Press Following Bilateral Meeting

Delivered 20 May 2011, Oval Office of the White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, let me, first of all, welcome again Prime Minister Netanyahu, who
I think has now been here seven times during the course of my presidency. And I want to
indicate that the frequency of these meetings is an indication of the extraordinary bonds
between our two countries, as is the opportunity for the Prime Minister to address Congress
during his visit here. I know that’s an honor that’s reserved for those who have always shown
themselves to be a great friend of the United States and is indicative of the friendship
between our countries.
We just completed a prolonged and extremely useful conversation touching on a wide range of
issues. We discussed, first of all, the changes that are sweeping the region and what has been
happening in places like Egypt and Syria and how they affect the interests and security of the
United States and Israel, as well as the opportunity for prosperity, growth and development in
the Arab world.
We agreed that there is a moment of opportunity that can be seized as a consequence of the
Arab Spring, but also acknowledge that there’s significant perils as well, and that it’s going to
be important for the United States and Israel to consult closely as we see developments
unfold.
I outlined for the Prime Minister some of the issues that I discussed in my speech yesterday -how important it was going to be for the United States to support political reform, support
human rights, support freedom of speech, religious tolerance and economic development,
particularly in Egypt, as the largest Arab country, as well as Tunisia, the country that first
started this revolutionary movement that’s taking place throughout the Middle East and North
Africa.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We also discussed the situation in Syria, which is obviously of acute concern to Israel, given
its shared border. And I gave more details to the Prime Minister about the significant steps
that we are taking to try to pressure Syria and the Assad regime to reform, including the
sanctions that we placed directly on President Assad.
We continue to share our deep concerns about Iran, not only the threat that it poses to Israel
but also the threat that it poses to the region and the world if it were to develop a nuclear
weapon. We updated our strategy to continue to apply pressure, both through sanctions and
our other diplomatic work. And I reiterated my belief that it is unacceptable for Iran to
possess a nuclear weapon.
We also discussed the hypocrisy of Iran suggesting that it somehow supports democratization
in the Middle East when, in fact, they first showed the repressive nature of that regime when
they responded to the own peaceful protests that took place inside Iran almost two years ago.
Finally, we discussed the issue of a prospective peace between Israelis and Palestinians. And I
reiterated and we discussed in depth the principles that I laid out yesterday -- the belief that
our ultimate goal has to be a secure Israeli state, a Jewish state, living side by side in peace
and security with a contiguous, functioning and effective Palestinian state.
Obviously there are some differences between us in the precise formulations and language,
and that’s going to happen between friends. But what we are in complete accord about is that
a true peace can only occur if the ultimate resolution allows Israel to defend itself against
threats, and that Israel’s security will remain paramount in U.S. evaluations of any
prospective peace deal.
I said that yesterday in the speech, and I continue to believe it. And I think that it is possible
for us to shape a deal that allows Israel to secure itself, not to be vulnerable, but also allows it
to resolve what has obviously been a wrenching issue for both peoples for decades now.
I also pointed out, as I said in the speech yesterday, that it is very difficult for Israel to be
expected to negotiate in a serious way with a party that refuses to acknowledge its right to
exist. And so for that reason I think the Palestinians are going to have to answer some very
difficult questions about this agreement that’s been made between Fatah and Hamas. Hamas
has been and is an organization that has resorted to terror; that has refused to acknowledge
Israel’s rights to exist. It is not a partner for a significant, realistic peace process. And so, as I
said yesterday during the speech, the Palestinians are going to have to explain how they can
credibly engage in serious peace negotiations in the absence of observing the Quartet
principles that have been put forward previously.
So, overall, I thought this was an extremely constructive discussion.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And coming out of this discussion, I once again can reaffirm that the extraordinarily close
relationship between the United States and Israel is sound and will continue, and that
together, hopefully we are going to be able to work to usher in a new period of peace and
prosperity in a region that is going to be going through some very profound transformations in
the coming weeks, months and years.
So, Mr. Prime Minister.

PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU: Thank you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Thank you very much.
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU: Mr. President, first I want to thank you and the First Lady
for the gracious hospitality that you’ve shown me, my wife, and our entire delegation. We
have an enduring bond of friendship between our two countries, and I appreciate the
opportunity to have this meeting with you after your important speech yesterday.
We share your hope and your vision for the spread of democracy in the Middle East. I
appreciate the fact that you reaffirmed once again now, and in our conversation, and in actual
deed the commitment to Israel’s security. We value your efforts to advance the peace
process.
This is something that we want to have accomplished. Israel wants peace. I want peace. What
we all want is a peace that will be genuine, that will hold, that will endure. And I think that the
-- we both agree that a peace based on illusions will crash eventually on the rocks of Middle
Eastern reality, and that the only peace that will endure is one that is based on reality, on
unshakeable facts.
I think for there to be peace, the Palestinians will have to accept some basic realities.
The first is that while Israel is prepared to make generous compromises for peace, it cannot
go back to the 1967 lines -- because these lines are indefensible; because they don’t take into
account certain changes that have taken place on the ground, demographic changes that have
taken place over the last 44 years.
Remember that, before 1967, Israel was all of nine miles wide. It was half the width of the
Washington Beltway.
And these were not the boundaries of peace; they were the boundaries of repeated wars,
because the attack on Israel was so attractive.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we can't go back to those indefensible lines, and we're going to have to have a long-term
military presence along the Jordan.
I discussed this with the President and I think that we understand that Israel has certain
security requirements that will have to come into place in any deal that we make.
The second is -- echoes something the President just said, and that is that Israel cannot
negotiate with a Palestinian government that is backed by Hamas. Hamas, as the President
said, is a terrorist organization committed to Israel’s destruction. It’s fired thousands of
rockets on our cities, on our children. It’s recently fired an anti-tank rocket at a yellow school
bus, killing a 16-year-old boy. And Hamas has just attacked you, Mr. President, and the
United States for ridding the world of bin Laden.
So Israel obviously cannot be asked to negotiate with a government that is backed by the
Palestinian version of al Qaeda.
I think President Abbas has a simple choice. He has to decide if he negotiates or keeps his
pact with Hamas, or makes peace with Israel. And I can only express what I said to you just
now, that I hope he makes the choice, the right choice, in choosing peace with Israel.
The third reality is that the Palestinian refugee problem will have to be resolved in the context
of a Palestinian state, but certainly not in the borders of Israel.
The Arab attack in 1948 on Israel resulted in two refugee problems -- Palestinian refugee
problem and Jewish refugees, roughly the same number, who were expelled from Arab lands.
Now, tiny Israel absorbed the Jewish refugees, but the vast Arab world refused to absorb the
Palestinian refugees. Now, 63 years later, the Palestinians come to us and they say to Israel,
accept the grandchildren, really, and the great grandchildren of these refugees, thereby
wiping out Israel’s future as a Jewish state.
So it’s not going to happen.
Everybody knows it’s not going to happen.
And I think it’s time to tell the Palestinians forthrightly it’s not going to happen. The
Palestinian refugee problem has to be resolved. It can be resolved, and it will be resolved if
the Palestinians choose to do so in a Palestinian state. So that's a real possibility. But it’s not
going to be resolved within the Jewish state.
The President and I discussed all these issues and I think we may have differences here and
there, but I think there’s an overall direction that we wish to work together to pursue a real,
genuine peace between Israel and its Palestinian neighbors; a peace that is defensible.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. President, you're the -- you're the leader of a great people, the American people. And I'm
the leader of a much smaller people, the -PRESIDENT OBAMA: A great people.
PRIME MINISTER NETANYAHU: It’s a great people, too. It’s the ancient nation of Israel.
And, you know, we've been around for almost 4,000 years. We've experienced struggle and
suffering like no other people. We've gone through expulsions and pogroms and massacres
and the murder of millions. But I can say that even at the dearth of -- even at the nadir of the
valley of death, we never lost hope and we never lost our dream of reestablishing a sovereign
state in our ancient homeland, the land of Israel.
And now it falls on my shoulders as the Prime Minister of Israel, at a time of extraordinary
instability and uncertainty in the Middle East, to work with you to fashion a peace that will
ensure Israel’s security and will not jeopardize its survival. I take this responsibility with pride
but with great humility, because, as I told you in our conversation, we don't have a lot of
margin for error. And because, Mr. President, history will not give the Jewish people another
chance.
So in the coming days and weeks and months, I intend to work with you to seek a peace that
will address our security concerns, seek a genuine recognition that we wish from our
Palestinian neighbors to give a better future for Israel and for the entire region.
And I thank you for the opportunity to exchange our views and to work together for this
common end. Thank you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329535" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Announces_Candidacy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Announces%20Candidacy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Official Announcement of Candidacy for US President
Delivered 10 February 2007, Springfield, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello Springfield! ...Look at all of you. Look at all of you. Goodness. Thank you so much.
Thank you so much. Giving all praise and honor to God for bringing us here today. Thank you
so much. I am -- I am so grateful to see all of you. You guys are still cheering back there? [to
audience on left.]
Let me -- Let me begin by saying thanks to all you who've traveled, from far and wide, to
brave the cold today. I know it's a little chilly -- but I'm fired up.
You know, we all made this journey for a reason. It's humbling to see a crowd like this, but in
my heart I know you didn't just come here for me. You...came here because you believe in
what this country can be. In the face of war, you believe there can be peace. In the face of
despair, you believe there can be hope. In the face of a politics that shut you out, that's told
you to settle, that's divided us for too long, you believe that we can be one people, reaching
for what's possible, building that more perfect union.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's the journey we're on today. But let me tell you how I came to be here. As most of you
know, I'm not a native of this great state. I -- I moved to Illinois over two decades ago. I was
a young man then, just a year out of college. I knew no one in Chicago when I arrived, was
without money or family connections. But a group of churches had offered me a job as a
community organizer for the grand sum of 13,000 dollars a year. And I accepted the job, sight
unseen, motivated then by a single, simple, powerful idea: that I might play a small part in
building a better America.
My work took me to some of Chicago's poorest neighborhoods. I joined with pastors and laypeople to deal with communities that had been ravaged by plant closings. I saw that the
problems people faced weren't simply local in nature, that the decisions to close a steel mill
was made by distant executives, that the lack of textbooks and computers in a school could
be traced to skewed priorities of politicians a thousand miles away, and that when a child
turns to violence -- I came to realize that -- there's a hole in that boy's heart that no
government alone can fill.
It was in these neighborhoods that I received the best education that I ever had, and where I
learned the meaning of my Christian faith.
After three years of this work, I went to law school, because I wanted to understand how the
law should work for those in need. I became a civil rights lawyer, and taught constitutional
law, and after a time, I came to understand that our cherished rights of liberty and equality
depend on the active participation of an awakened electorate. It was with these ideas in mind
that I arrived in this capital city as a state Senator.
It -- It was here, in Springfield, where I saw all that is America converge -- farmers and
teachers, businessmen and laborers, all of them with a story to tell, all of them seeking a seat
at the table, all of them clamoring to be heard. I made lasting friendships here, friends that I
see here in the audience today. It was here -- It was here where we learned to disagree
without being disagreeable; that it's possible to compromise so long as you know those
principles that can never be compromised; and that so long as we're willing to listen to each
other, we can assume the best in people instead of the worst.
That's why we were able to reform a death penalty system that was broken; that's why we
were able to give health insurance to children in need; that's why we made the tax system
right here in Springfield more fair and just for working families; and that's why we passed
ethics reform that the cynics said could never, ever be passed.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It was here, in Springfield, where North, South, East, and West come together that I was
reminded of the essential decency of the American people -- where I came to believe that
through this decency, we can build a more hopeful America. And that is why, in the shadow of
the Old State Capitol, where Lincoln once called on a house divided to stand together, where
common hopes and common dreams still live, I stand before you today to announce my
candidacy for President of the United States of America.
Now -- Now, listen, I -- I... -- thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. [to audience
chanting "Obama"]
Look, I -- I...recognize that there is a certain presumptuousness in this, a certain audacity, to
this announcement. I know that I haven't spent a lot of time learning the ways of Washington.
But I've been there long enough to know that the ways of Washington must change.
The genius of our Founders is that they designed a system of government that can be
changed. And we should take heart, because we've changed this country before. In the face of
tyranny, a band of patriots brought an empire to its knees. In the face of secession, we
unified a nation and set the captives free. In the face of Depression, we put people back to
work and lifted millions out of poverty. We welcomed immigrants to our shores. We opened
railroads to the west. We landed a man on the moon. And we heard a King's call to let "justice
roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream."
We've done this before: Each and every time, a new generation has risen up and done what's
needed to be done. Today we are called once more, and it is time for our generation to
answer that call. For that is our unyielding faith -- that in -- in the face of impossible odds,
people who love their country can change it.
That's what Abraham Lincoln understood. He had his doubts. He had his defeats. He had his
skeptics. He had his setbacks. But through his will and his words, he moved a nation and
helped free a people. It's because of the millions who rallied to his cause that we're no longer
divided, North and South, slave and free. It's because men and women of every race, from
every walk of life, continued to march for freedom long after Lincoln was laid to rest, that
today we have the chance to face the challenges of this millennium together, as one people -as Americans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
All of us know what those challenges are today: a war with no end, a dependence on oil that
threatens our future, schools where too many children aren't learning, and families struggling
paycheck to paycheck despite working as hard as they can. We know the challenges. We've
heard them. We've talked about them for years.
What's stopped us from meeting these challenges is not the absence of sound policies and
sensible plans. What's stopped us is the failure of leadership, the smallness -- the smallness of
our politics -- the ease with which we're distracted by the petty and trivial, our chronic
avoidance of tough decisions, our preference for scoring cheap political points instead of
rolling up our sleeves and building a working consensus to tackle the big problems of America.
For the past six years we've been told that our mounting debts don't matter. We've been told
that the anxiety Americans feel about rising health care costs and stagnant wages are an
illusion. We've been told that climate change is a hoax. We've been told that tough talk and
an ill-conceived war can replace diplomacy, and strategy, and foresight. And when all else
fails, when Katrina happens, or the death toll in Iraq mounts, we've been told that our crises
are somebody else's fault. We're distracted from our real failures, and told to blame the other
Party, or gay people, or immigrants.
And as people have looked away in disillusionment and frustration, we know what's filled the
void: the cynics, the lobbyists, the special interests -- who've turned our government into a
game only they can afford to play. They write the checks and you get stuck with the bill. They
get the access while you get to write a letter. They think they own this government, but we're
here today to take it back. The time for that kind of politics is over. It is through. It's time to
turn the page -- right here and right now.
Now look -[Audience chants "Obama...Obama...Obama"]
Okay. Alright. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
Look, look, we have made some progress already. I was proud to help lead the fight in
Congress that led to the most sweeping ethics reforms since Watergate. But Washington has a
long way to go, and it won't be easy. That's why we'll have to set priorities. We'll have to
make hard choices. And although government will play a crucial role in bringing about the
changes that we need, more money and programs alone will not get us to where we need to
go. Each of us, in our own lives, will have to accept responsibility -- for instilling an ethic of

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
achievement in our children, for adapting to a more competitive economy, for strengthening
our communities, and sharing some measure of sacrifice.
So let us begin. Let us begin this hard work together. Let us transform this nation. Let us be
the generation that reshapes our economy to compete in the digital age. Let's set high
standards for our schools and give them the resources they need to succeed. Let's recruit a
new army of teachers, and give them better pay and more support in exchange for more
accountability. Let's make college more affordable, and let's invest in scientific research, and
let's lay down broadband lines through the heart of inner cities and rural towns all across
America. We can do that.
And as our economy changes, let's be the generation that ensures our nation's workers are
sharing in our prosperity. Let's protect the hard-earned benefits their companies have
promised. Let's make it possible for hardworking Americans to save for retirement. Let's allow
our unions and their organizers to lift up this country's middle-class again. We can do that.
Let's be the generation that ends poverty in America. Every single person willing to work
should be able to get job training that leads to a job, and earn a living wage that can pay the
bills, and afford child care so their kids can have a safe place to go when they work. We can
do this.
And let's be the generation that finally, after all these years, tackles our health care crisis. We
can control costs by focusing on prevention, by providing better treatment to the chronically
ill, and using technology to cut the bureaucracy. Let's be the generation that says right here,
right now: We will have universal health care in America by the end of the next President's
first term. We can do that.
Let's be the generation that finally frees America from the tyranny of oil. We can harness
homegrown, alternative fuels like ethanol and spur the production of more fuel-efficient cars.
We can set up a system for capping greenhouse gases. We can turn this crisis of global
warming into a moment of opportunity for innovation, and job creation, and an incentive for
businesses that will serve as a model for the world. Let's be the generation that makes future
generations proud of what we did here.
Most of all, let's be the generation that never forgets what happened on that September day
and confront the terrorists with everything we've got. Politics doesn't have to divide us on this
anymore; we can work together to keep our country safe. I've worked with the Republican
Senator Dick Lugar to pass a law that will secure and destroy some of the world's deadliest

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
weapons. We can work together to track down terrorists with a stronger military. We can
tighten the net around their finances. We can improve our intelligence capabilities and finally
get homeland security right. But let's also understand that ultimate victory against our
enemies will only come by rebuilding our alliances and exporting those ideals that bring hope
and opportunity to millions of people around the globe.
We can do those things.
But all of this cannot come to pass until we bring an end to this war in Iraq. Most of you know
-- Most of you know that I opposed this war from the start. I thought it was a tragic mistake.
Today we grieve for the families who have lost loved ones, the hearts that have been broken,
and the young lives that could have been. America, it is time to start bringing our troops
home. It's time -- It's time to admit that no amount of American lives can resolve the political
disagreement that lies at the heart of someone else's civil war. That's why I have a plan that
will bring our combat troops home by March of 2008. Let the Iraqis know -- Letting the Iraqis
know that we will not be there forever is our last, best hope to pressure the Sunni and Shia to
come to the table and find peace.
And there's one other thing that it's not too late to get right about this war, and that is the
homecoming of the men and women, our veterans, who have sacrificed the most. Let us
honor their courage by providing the care they need and rebuilding the military they love. Let
us be the generation that begins that work.
I know there are those who don't believe we can do all these things. I understand the
skepticism. After all, every four years, candidates from both Parties make similar promises,
and I expect this year will be no different. All of us running for President will travel around the
country offering ten-point plans and making grand speeches; all of us will trumpet those
qualities we believe make us uniquely qualified to lead this country. But too many times, after
the election is over, and the confetti is swept away, all those promises fade from memory, and
the lobbyists and special interests move in, and people turn away, disappointed as before, left
to struggle on their own.
That's why this campaign can't only be about me. It must be about us. It must be about what
we can do together. This campaign must be the occasion, the vehicle, of your hopes, and your
dreams. It will take your time, your energy, and your advice to push us forward when we're
doing right, and let us know when we're not. This campaign has to be about reclaiming the
meaning of citizenship, restoring our sense of common purpose, and realizing that few
obstacles can withstand the power of millions of voices calling for change.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
By ourselves, this change will not happen. Divided, we are bound to fail. But the life of a tall,
gangly, self-made Springfield lawyer tells us that a different future is possible.
He tells us that there is power in words.
He tells us that there's power in conviction.
That beneath all the differences of race and region, faith and station, we are one people.
He tells us that there's power in hope.
As Lincoln organized the forces arrayed against slavery, he was heard to say this: "Of strange,
discordant, and even hostile elements, we gathered from the four winds, and formed and
fought to battle through."¹
That is our purpose here today. That is why I am in this race -- not just to hold an office, but
to gather with you to transform a nation. I want -- I want to win that next battle -- for justice
and opportunity. I want to win that next battle -- for better schools, and better jobs, and
better health care for all. I want us to take up the unfinished business of perfecting our union,
and building a better America.
And if you will join with me in this improbable quest, if you feel destiny calling, and see as I
see, the future of endless possibility stretching out before us; if you sense, as I sense, that
the time is now to shake off our slumber, and slough off our fears, and make good on the
debt we owe past and future generations, then I am ready to take up the cause, and march
with you, and work with you -- today.
Together we can finish the work that needs to be done, and usher in a new birth of freedom
on this Earth.
Thank you very much everybody -- let's get to work! I love you. Thank you.

¹Abraham Lincoln, A House Divided

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status: Uncertain.

Updated 12/16/21

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329593" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Announces_Commerce_Secretary_Designate.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Announces%20Commerce%20Secretary%20Designate.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Press Conference Announcing Commerce Secretary Designate

Delivered 3 December 2008, Chicago, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Morning, everybody.
Last week, Vice President­Elect Biden and I began the process of announcing our economic
team. Today, we are pleased to name another key member of this team: our nominee for
Secretary of Commerce, my great friend, Governor Bill Richardson.
With each passing day, the work our team has begun, developing plans to revive our
economy, becomes more urgent. Earlier this week, we learned that the U.S. economy has
been in recession since December of 2007 and that our manufacturing output is at a 26 year
low ­­ two stark reminders of the magnitude of the challenges we face.
But while I know rebuilding our economy won’t be easy ­­ and it won’t be ­­ happen overnight
­­ I also know this: that right now, somewhere in America, a small business is at work with
the next big idea; a scientist is on the cusp of the next big breakthrough discovery; an
entrepreneur is sketching plans for the startup that will revolutionize an industry. Right now,
across America, the finest products in the world are rolling off our assembly lines. And the
proudest, most determined, most productive workers in the world are on the job ­­ some,
already on their second shift of the day; many, putting in longer hours than ever before.
After nearly two years of traveling across this country, meeting with workers, visiting
businesses large and small, I am more confident than ever that we have everything we need
to renew our economy. We've got the ingenuity, the technology, the skill, and commitment;
we just need to put it to work.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It’s time to not just address the immediate economic threats, but to start laying the
groundwork for long­term prosperity to help American businesses grow and thrive at home,
and expand our efforts to promote American enterprise around the world.
This work is the core mission of the Secretary of Commerce. And with his breadth and depth
of experience in public life, Governor Richardson is uniquely suited for this role as a leading
economic diplomat for America. During his time in state government and Congress, and in
tour ­­ two tours of duty in the cabinet, Bill has seen from just about every angle what makes
our economy work and what keeps it from working better.
As Governor of New Mexico, Bill showed how government can act as a partner to support our
businesses, helping to create 80,000 new jobs. And under his leadership, New Mexico saw the
lowest unemployment rate in decades.
As a former Secretary of Energy, Bill understands the steps we must take to build a new,
clean­energy industry and create the green jobs of the twenty­first century ­­ jobs that pay
well and won’t be outsourced; jobs that will help us end our dependence on foreign oil.
And as a former Ambassador to the United Nations, Bill brings both international stature and a
deep understanding of today’s global economy. He understands that the success of today’s
business in Detroit or Columbus often depends on whether it can sell products in places like
Santiago or Shanghai. And he knows that America’s reputation in the world is critical not just
to our security, but to our prosperity ­­ (excuse me) ­­ that when the citizens of the world
respect America’s leadership, they are more likely to buy America’s products.
To this crucial work of restoring America’s international standing, Bill will bring a leadership
style all his own. Bill has never been content to just learn from briefing books, never satisfied
with only the official version of the story. During his time in Congress, he held more than two
­­ 2,500 town­hall meetings, so he could hear directly from constituents. He was a regular in
the U.N. cafeteria, mixing it up with U.N. employees over lunch. And during his 2002
campaign for record ­­ for Governor, he actually broke a world record by shaking nearly
14,000 hands in just eight hours.
(I've got to check that statistic.)
All of this reflects a determination to reach out and understand where people are coming
from, what they hope for, and what he can do to help. This approach, I believe, has been the
key to Bill’s success as a negotiator and will be key to his work on the critical functions of the
Commerce Department ­­ from administering our census and monitoring our climate to
protecting our intellectual property and restoring our economic diplomacy.
In the end, Bill Richardson is a leader who shares my values, and he must ­­ and he will be
measured his progress the same way I do. Are we creating good jobs instead of losing them?
Are incomes growing instead of shrinking? I know Bill will be an unyielding advocate for
American business and American jobs at home and around the world. And I look forward to
working with him in the years ahead.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329659" filename="Barack_Obama_-_ASU_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20ASU%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at Arizona State University
delivered 14 May 2009, Sun Devil Stadium, Tempe, Arizona

Well, thank you, President Crow, for that extremely generous introduction, for your inspired
leadership as well here at ASU. And I want to thank the entire ASU community for the honor
of attaching my name to a scholarship program that will help open the doors of higher
education to students from every background. What a wonderful gift. Thank you. That notion
of opening doors of opportunity to everybody, that is the core mission of this school; it's a
core mission of my presidency; and I hope this program will serve as a model for universities
across this country. So thank you so much.
I want to obviously congratulate the Class of 2009you’re your unbelievable achievement. I
want to thank the parents, the uncles, the grandpas, the grandmas, cousins -- Calabash
cousins -- everybody who was involved in helping these extraordinary young people arrive at
this moment.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I also want to apologize to the entire state of Arizona for stealing away your wonderful former
governor, Janet Napolitano. But you've got a fine governor here and I also know that Janet is
applying her extraordinary talents to serve our entire country as the Secretary of Homeland
Security, keeping America safe. And she's doing a great job.
Now, before I begin, I'd just like to clear the air about that little controversy everybody was
talking about a few weeks back. I have to tell you, I really thought this was much ado about
nothing, but I do think we all learned an important lesson. I learned never again to pick
another team over the Sun Devils in my NCAA bracket. It won't happen again. President
Crow and the Board of Regents will soon learn all about being audited by the IRS.
Now, in all seriousness, I come here not to dispute the suggestion that I haven't yet achieved
enough in my life. First of all, Michelle concurs with that assessment. She has a long list of
things that I have not yet done waiting for me when I get home. But more than that, I come
to embrace the notion that I haven't done enough in my life; I heartily concur; I come to
affirm that one's title, even a title like President of the United States, says very little about
how well one's life has been led -- that no matter how much you've done, or how successful
you've been, there's always more to do, always more to learn, and always more to achieve.
And I want to say to you today, graduates, Class of 2009, that despite having achieved a
remarkable milestone in your life, despite the fact that you and your families are so rightfully
proud, you too cannot rest on your laurels. Not even some of those remarkable young people
who were introduced earlier -- not even that young lady who's got four degrees yet today.
You can't rest. Your own body of work is also yet to come.
Now, some graduating classes have marched into this stadium in easy times -- times of peace
and stability when we call on our graduates simply to keep things going, and don't screw it
up. Other classes have received their diplomas in times of trial and upheaval, when the very
foundations of our lives, the old order has been shaken, the old ideas and institutions have
crumbled, and a new generation is called upon to remake the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It should be clear to you by now the category into which all of you fall. For we gather here
tonight in times of extraordinary difficulty, for the nation and for the world. The economy
remains in the midst of a historic recession, the worst we've seen since the Great Depression;
the result, in part, of greed and irresponsibility that rippled out from Wall Street and
Washington, as we spent beyond our means and failed to make hard choices. We're engaged
in two wars and a struggle against terrorism. The threats of climate change, nuclear
proliferation, and pandemic defy national boundaries and easy solutions.
For many of you, these challenges are also felt in more personal terms. Perhaps you're still
looking for a job -- or struggling to figure out what career path makes sense in this disrupted
economy. Maybe you've got student loans -- no, you definitely have student loans -- or credit
card debts, and you're wondering how you'll ever pay them off. Maybe you've got a family to
raise, and you're wondering how you'll ensure that your children have the same opportunities
you've had to get an education and pursue their dreams.
Now, in the face of these challenges, it may be tempting to fall back on the formulas for
success that have been pedaled so frequently in recent years. It goes something like this:
You're taught to chase after all the usual brass rings; you try to be on this "who's who" list or
that top 100 list; you chase after the big money and you figure out how big your corner office
is; you worry about whether you have a fancy enough title or a fancy enough car. That's the
message that's sent each and every day, or has been in our culture for far too long -- that
through material possessions, through a ruthless competition pursued only on your own behalf
-- that’s how you will measure success.
Now, you can take that road -- and it may work for some. But at this critical juncture in our
nation's history, at this difficult time, let me suggest that such an approach won't get you
where you want to go; it displays a poverty of ambition -- that in fact, the elevation of
appearance over substance, of celebrity over character, of short-term gain over lasting
achievement is precisely what your generation needs to help end.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, ASU, I want to highlight -- I want to highlight two main problems with that old, tired,
me-first approach. First, it distracts you from what's truly important, and may lead you to
compromise your values and your principles and commitments. Think about it. It's in chasing
titles and status -- in worrying about the next election rather than the national interest and
the interests of those who you're supposed to represent -- that politicians so often lose their
ways in Washington. They spend time thinking about polls, but not about principle. It was in
pursuit of gaudy short-term profits, and the bonuses that came with them, that so many folks
lost their way on Wall Street, engaging in extraordinary risks with other people's money.
In contrast, the leaders we revere, the businesses and institutions that last -- they are not
generally the result of a narrow pursuit of popularity or personal advancement, but of
devotion to some bigger purpose -- the preservation of the Union or the determination to lift a
country out of a depression; the creation of a quality product, a commitment to your
customers, your workers, your shareholders and your community. A commitment to make
sure that an institution like ASU is inclusive and diverse and giving opportunity to all. That's a
hallmark of real success.
That other stuff -- that other stuff, the trappings of success may be a byproduct of this larger
mission, but it can't be the central thing. Just ask Bernie Madoff. That's the first problem
with the old attitude.
But the second problem with the old approach to success is that a relentless focus on the
outward markers of success can lead to complacency. It can make you lazy. We too often let
the external, the material things, serve as indicators that we're doing well, even though
something inside us tells us that we're not doing our best; that we're avoiding that which is
hard, but also necessary; that we're shrinking from, rather than rising to, the challenges of
the age. And the thing is, in this new, hyper-competitive age, none of us -- none of us -- can
afford to be complacent.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's true in whatever profession you choose. Professors might earn the distinction of
tenure, but that doesn't guarantee that they'll keep putting in the long hours and late nights - and have the passion and the drive -- to be great educators. The same principle is true in
your personal life. Being a parent is not just a matter of paying the bills, doing the bare
minimum -- it's not bringing a child into the world that matters, but the acts of love and
sacrifice it takes to raise and educate that child and give them opportunity. It can happen to
Presidents, as well. If you think about it, Abraham Lincoln and Millard Fillmore had the very
same title, they were both Presidents of the United States, but their tenure in office and their
legacy could not be more different.
And that's not just true for individuals -- it's also true for this nation. In recent years, in many
ways, we've become enamored with our own past success -- lulled into complacency by the
glitter of our own achievements.
We've become accustomed to the title of "military super-power," forgetting the qualities that
got us there -- not just the power of our weapons, but the discipline and valor and the code of
conduct of our men and women in uniform. The Marshall Plan, and the Peace Corps, and all
those initiatives that show our commitment to working with other nations to pursue the ideals
of opportunity and equality and freedom that have made us who we are. That's what made
us a super power.
We've become accustomed to our economic dominance in the world, forgetting that it wasn't
reckless deals and get-rich-quick schemes that got us where we are, but hard work and smart
ideas -- quality products and wise investments. We started taking shortcuts. We started
living on credit, instead of building up savings. We saw businesses focus more on rebranding
and repackaging than innovating and developing new ideas that improve our lives.
All the while, the rest of the world has grown hungrier, more restless -- in constant motion to
build and to discover -- not content with where they are right now, determined to strive for
more. They're coming.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
So graduates, it's now abundantly clear that we need to start doing things a little bit
different. In your own lives, you'll need to continuously adapt to a continuously changing
economy. You'll end up having more than one job and more than one career over the course
of your life; to keep gaining new skills -- possibly even new degrees; and you'll have to keep
on taking risks as new opportunities arise.
And as a nation, we'll need a fundamental change of perspective and attitude. It's clear that
we need to build a new foundation -- a stronger foundation -- for our economy and our
prosperity, rethinking how we grow our economy, how we use energy, how we educate our
children, how we care for our sick, how we treat our environment.
Many of our current challenges are unprecedented. There are no standard remedies, no go-to
fixes this time around. And Class of 2009 that's why we're going to need your help. We need
young people like you to step up. We need your daring, we need your enthusiasm and your
energy, we need your imagination.
And let me be clear, when I say "young," I'm not just referring to the date of your birth
certificate. I'm talking about an approach to life -- a quality of mind and quality of heart; a
willingness to follow your passions, regardless of whether they lead to fortune and fame; a
willingness to question conventional wisdom and rethink old dogmas; a lack of regard for all
the traditional markers of status and prestige -- and a commitment instead to doing what's
meaningful to you, what helps others, what makes a difference in this world.
That's the spirit that led a band of patriots not much older than most of you to take on an
empire, to start this experiment in democracy we call America. It's what drove young
pioneers west, to Arizona and beyond; it's what drove young women to reach for the ballot;
what inspired a 30 year-old escaped slave to run an underground railroad to freedom -- what
inspired a young man named Cesar to go out and help farm workers; what inspired a 26 yearold preacher to lead a bus boycott for justice. It's what led firefighters and police officers in
the prime of their lives up the stairs of those burning towers; and young people across this
country to drop what they were doing and come to the aid of a flooded New Orleans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
It's what led two guys in a garage -- named Hewlett and Packard -- to form a company that
would change the way we live and work; what led scientists in laboratories, and novelists in
coffee shops to labor in obscurity until they finally succeeded in changing the way we see the
world.
That's the great American story: Young people just like you, following their passions,
determined to meet the times on their own terms. They weren't doing it for the money. Their
titles weren't fancy -- ex-slave, minister, student, citizen. A whole bunch of them didn't get
honorary degrees. But they changed the course of history -- and so can you ASU, so can you
Class of 2009. So can you.
With a degree from this outstanding institution, you have everything you need to get started.
You've got no excuses. You have no excuses not to change the world. Did you study
business? Go start a company. Or why not help our struggling non-profits find better, more
effective ways to serve folks in need. Did you study nursing? Understaffed clinics and hospitals
across this country are desperate for your help. Did you study education? Teach in a highneed school where the kids really need you; give a chance to kids who can't-- who can't get
everything they need maybe in their neighborhood, maybe not even in their home we can't
afford to give up on -- prepare them to compete for any job anywhere in the world. Did you
study engineering? Help us lead a green revolution -- developing new sources of clean energy
that will power our economy and preserve our planet.
But you can also make your mark in smaller, more individual ways. That's what so many of
you have already done during your time here at ASU -- tutoring children; registering voters;
doing your own small part to fight hunger and homelessness, AIDS and cancer. One student
said it best when she spoke about her senior engineering project building medical devices for
people with disabilities in a village in Africa. Her professor showed a video of the folks they'd
been helping, and she said, "When we saw the people on the videos, we began to feel a
connection to them. It made us want to be successful for them." Think about that: "It made
us want to be successful for them."

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's a great motto for all of us -- find somebody to be successful for. Raise their hopes.
Rise to their needs. As you think about life after graduation, as you look into the mirror
tonight after the partying is done -- that shouldn't get such a big cheer -- you may look in the
mirror tonight and you may see somebody who's not really sure what to do with their lives.
That's what you may see, but a troubled child might look at you and see a mentor. A
homebound senior citizen might see a lifeline. The folks at your local homeless shelter might
see a friend. None of them care how much money is in your bank account, or whether you're
important at work, or whether you're famous around town -- they just know that you're
somebody who cares, somebody who makes a difference in their lives.
So Class of 2009, that's what building a body of work is all about -- it's about the daily labor,
the many individual acts, the choices large and small that add up over time, over a lifetime, to
a lasting legacy. That's what you want on your tombstone. It's about not being satisfied with
the latest achievement, the latest gold star -- because the one thing I know about a body of
work is that it's never finished. It's cumulative; it deepens and expands with each day that
you give your best, each day that you give back and contribute to the life of your community
and your nation. You may have setbacks, and you may have failures, but you're not done -you're not even getting started, not by a long shot.
And if you ever forget that, just look to history. Thomas Paine was a failed corset maker, a
failed teacher, and a failed tax collector before he made his mark on history with a little book
called "Common Sense" that helped ignite a revolution. Julia Child didn't publish her first
cookbook until she was almost 50. Colonel Sanders didn't open up his first Kentucky Fried
Chicken until he was in his 60s. Winston Churchill was dismissed as little more than a hasbeen, who enjoyed scotch a little bit too much, before he took over as Prime Minister and saw
Great Britain through its finest hour. No one thought a former football player stocking shelves
at the local supermarket would return to the game he loved, become a Super Bowl MVP, and
then come here to Arizona and lead your Cardinals to their first Super Bowl. Your body of
work is never done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Each of them, at one point in their life, didn't have any title or much status to speak of. But
they had passion, a commitment to following that passion wherever it would lead, and to
working hard every step along the way.
And that's not just how you'll ensure that your own life is well-lived. It's how you'll make a
difference in the life of our nation. I talked earlier about the selfishness and irresponsibility on
Wall Street and Washington that rippled out and led to so many of the problems that we face
today. I talked about the focus on outward markers of success that can help lead us astray.
But here's the thing, Class of 2009: It works the other way around too. Acts of sacrifice and
decency without regard to what's in it for you -- that also creates ripple effects -- ones that lift
up families and communities; that spread opportunity and boost our economy; that reach
folks in the forgotten corners of the world who, in committed young people like you, see the
true face of America: our strength, our goodness, our diversity, our enduring power, our
ideals.
I know starting your careers in troubled times is a challenge. But it is also a privilege.
Because it's moments like these that force us to try harder, to dig deeper, and to discover
gifts we never knew we had -- to find the greatness that lies within each of us. So don't ever
shy away from that endeavor. Don't stop adding to your body of work. I can promise that
you will be the better for that continued effort, as will this nation that we all love.
Congratulations, Class of 2009, on your graduation.
God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329759" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Auschwitz_and_Birkenau_Liberation_65th.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Auschwitz%20and%20Birkenau%20Liberation%2065th.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Honoring 65th Anniversary of Auschwitz and Birkenau Liberation
delivered 27 January 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning. And thank you to everyone who worked to bring us to this day, especially the
International Auschwitz Council and the Auschwitz-Birkenau State Museum.
To President Kacynski, Prime Minister Tusk, and to the people of Poland: Thank you for
preserving a place of such great pain for the Polish people, but a place of remembrance and
learning for the world.
Although I can’t be with you in person, I am proud that the United States is represented there
today by a delegation of distinguished Americans, including Ambassador Feinstein; my wife
Michelle’s chief of staff, Susan Sher; and my good friend, and the son of Holocaust survivors,
Julius Genachowski.
And let me commend you for recognizing a woman who has devoted her life to preserving the
lessons of the shoah for future generations -- Sara Bloomfield of the United States Holocaust
Memorial Museum in Washington.
But most of all, I want to thank those of you who found the strength to come back again, so
many years later, despite the horror you saw here, the suffering you endured here, and the
loved ones you lost here. Those of us who did not live through those dark days will never truly
understand what it means to have hate literally etched into your arms. But we understand the
message that you carry in your hearts.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
For you know the truth that Elie Wiesel spoke when I stood with him at Buchenwald last
spring. There, where his father and so many innocent souls left this earth, Elie said:
"...memory has become [a] sacred duty of all people of goodwill.”
We have a sacred duty to remember the twisted thinking that led here -- how a great society
of culture and science succumbed to the worst instincts of man and rationalized mass murder
and one of the most barbaric acts in history.
We have a sacred duty to remember the cruelty that occurred here, as told in the simple
objects that speak to us even now: the suitcases that still bear their names; the wooden clogs
they wore; the round bowls from which they ate; those brick buildings from which there was
no escape -- where so many Jews died with Sh’ma Israel on their lips; and the very earth at
Auschwitz, which is still hallowed by their ashes -- Jews and those who tried to save them,
Polish and Hungarian, French and Dutch, Roma and Russian, straight and gay, and so many
others.
But even as we recall man’s capacity for evil, Auschwitz also tells another story -- of man’s
capacity for good: the small acts of compassion -- the sharing of some bread that kept a child
alive; the great acts of resistance that blew up the crematorium and tried to stop the
slaughter; the Polish Rescuers; and those who earned their place forever in the Righteous
Among the Nations.
And you: the survivors.
The perpetrators of that crime tried to annihilate the entire Jewish people. But they failed.
Because 65 years ago today, when the gates flew open, you were still standing. And every
day that you have lived, every child and grandchild that your families have brought into the
world with love, every day the sun rises on the Jewish state of Israel -- that is the ultimate
rebuke to the ignorance and hatred of this place.
So to those of you who have come back today, I say, no, you are not “former prisoners.” You
are living memorials: living memorials to the loved ones you left here, and to the spirit we
must strive to uphold in our time -- not simply to bear witness, but to bear a burden -- the
burden of seeing our common humanity; of resisting anti-Semitism and ignorance in all its
forms; of refusing to become bystanders to evil, whenever and wherever it rears its ugly face.
Let that be the true meaning of Auschwitz. Let that be the liberation we celebrate today -- a
liberation of the spirit that, if embraced, can lead us all -- individuals and as nations -- to be
among the righteous.
May God bless you all, and may God bless the memory of all those who rest here.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329750" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Aviation_Security.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Aviation%20Security.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Strengthening Intelligence and Aviation Security Address
delivered 7 January 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. The immediate reviews that I ordered after the failed Christmas
terrorist attack are now complete. I was just briefed on the findings and recommendations for
reform, and I believe it's important that the American people understand the new steps that
we're taking to prevent attacks and keep our country safe.
This afternoon, my Counterterrorism and Homeland Security Advisor, John Brennan, will
discuss his review into our terrorist watchlist system -- how our government failed to connect
the dots in a way that would have prevented a known terrorist from boarding a plane for
America, and the steps we're going to take to prevent that from happening again.
Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano will discuss her review of aviation screening,
technology and procedures -- how that terrorist boarded a plane with explosives that could
have killed nearly 300 innocent people, and how we'll strengthen aviation security going
forward.
So today I want to just briefly summarize their conclusions and the steps that I've ordered to
address them.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
In our ever-changing world, America's first line of defense is timely, accurate intelligence that
is shared, integrated, analyzed, and acted upon quickly and effectively. That's what the
intelligence reforms after the 9/11 attacks largely achieved. That's what our intelligence
community does every day. But, unfortunately, that's not what happened in the lead-up to
Christmas Day. It's now clear that shortcomings occurred in three broad and compounding
ways.
First, although our intelligence community had learned a great deal about the al Qaeda
affiliate in Yemen -- called al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula -- that we knew that they sought
to strike the United States and that they were recruiting operatives to do so -- the intelligence
community did not aggressively follow up on and prioritize particular streams of intelligence
related to a possible attack against the homeland.
Second, this contributed to a larger failure of analysis -- a failure to connect the dots of
intelligence that existed across our intelligence community and which, together, could have
revealed that Abdulmutallab was planning an attack.
Third, this, in turn, fed into shortcomings in the watch-listing system which resulted in this
person not being placed on the "no fly" list, thereby allowing him to board that plane in
Amsterdam for Detroit.
In sum, the U.S. government had the information -- scattered throughout the system -- to
potentially uncover this plot and disrupt the attack. Rather than a failure to collect or share
intelligence, this was a failure to connect and understand the intelligence that we already had.
That's why we took swift action in the immediate days following Christmas, including
reviewing and updating the terrorist watchlist system and adding more individuals to the "no
fly" list, and directing our embassies and consulates to include current visa information in their
warnings of individuals with terrorist or suspected terrorist ties.
Today, I'm directing a series of additional corrective steps across multiple agencies. Broadly
speaking, they fall into four areas.
First, I'm directing that our intelligence community immediately begin assigning specific
responsibility for investigating all leads on high-priority threats so that these leads are
pursued and acted upon aggressively -- not just most of the time, but all of the time. We
must follow the leads that we get. And we must pursue them until plots are disrupted. And
that mean assigning clear lines of responsibility.
Second, I'm directing that intelligence reports, especially those involving potential threats to
the United States, be distributed more rapidly and more widely. We can't sit on information
that could protect the American people.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Third, I'm directing that we strengthen the analytical process, how our analysis -- how our
analysts process and integrate the intelligence that they receive. My Director of National
Intelligence, Denny Blair, will take the lead in improving our day-to-day efforts. My
Intelligence Advisory Board will examine the longer-term challenge of sifting through vast
universes of intelligence and data in our Information Age.
And finally, I'm ordering an immediate effort to strengthen the criteria used to add individuals
to our terrorist watchlists, especially the "no fly" list. We must do better in keeping dangerous
people off airplanes, while still facilitating air travel.
So taken together, these reforms will improve the intelligence community's ability to collect,
share, integrate, analyze, and act on intelligence swiftly and effectively. In short, they will
help our intelligence community do its job even better and protect American lives.
But even the best intelligence can't identify in advance every individual who would do us
harm. So we need the security -- at our airports, ports, and borders, and through our
partnerships with other nations -- to prevent terrorists from entering America.
At the Amsterdam airport, Abdulmutallab was subjected to the same screening as other
passengers. He was required to show his documents -- including a valid U.S. visa. His carryon bag was X-rayed. He passed through a metal detector. But a metal detector can't detect
the kind of explosives that were sewn into his clothes.
As Secretary Napolitano will explain, the screening technologies that might have detected
these explosives are in use at the Amsterdam airport, but not at the specific checkpoints that
he passed through. Indeed, most airports in the world -- and in the United States -- do not
yet have these technologies. Now, there's no silver bullet to securing the thousands of flights
into America each day, domestic and international. It will require significant investments in
many areas. And that's why, even before the Christmas attack, we increased investments in
homeland security and aviation security. This includes an additional one billion dollars in new
systems and technologies that we need to protect our airports -- more baggage screening,
more passenger screening and more advanced explosive detection capabilities, including those
that can improve our ability to detect the kind of explosive used on Christmas. These are
major investments and they'll make our skies safer and more secure.
As I announced this week, we've taken a whole range of steps to improve aviation screening
and security since Christmas, including new rules for how we handle visas within the
government and enhanced screening for passengers flying from, or through, certain
countries.
And today, I'm directing that the Department of Homeland Security take additional steps,
including: strengthening our international partnerships to improve aviation screening and
security around the world; greater use of the advanced explosive detection technologies that
we already have, including imaging technology; and working aggressively, in cooperation with

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
the Department of Energy and our National Labs, to develop and deploy the next generation
of screening technologies.
Now, there is, of course, no foolproof solution. As we develop new screening technologies and
procedures, our adversaries will seek new ways to evade them, as was shown by the
Christmas attack. In the never-ending race to protect our country, we have to stay one step
ahead of a nimble adversary. That's what these steps are designed to do. And we will
continue to work with Congress to ensure that our intelligence, homeland security, and law
enforcement communities have the resources they need to keep the American people safe.
I ordered these two immediate reviews so that we could take immediate action to secure our
country. But in the weeks and months ahead, we will continue a sustained and intensive
effort of analysis and assessment, so that we leave no stone unturned in seeking better ways
to protect the American people.
I have repeatedly made it clear -- in public with the American people, and in private with my
national security team -- that I will hold my staff, our agencies and the people in them
accountable when they fail to perform their responsibilities at the highest levels.
Now, at this stage in the review process it appears that this incident was not the fault of a
single individual or organization, but rather a systemic failure across organizations and
agencies. That's why, in addition to the corrective efforts that I've ordered, I've directed
agency heads to establish internal accountability reviews, and directed my national security
staff to monitor their efforts. We will measure progress. And John Brennan will report back to
me within 30 days and on a regular basis after that. All of these agencies -- and their leaders
-- are responsible for implementing these reforms. And all will be held accountable if they
don't.
Moreover, I am less interested in passing out blame than I am in learning from and correcting
these mistakes to make us safer. For ultimately, the buck stops with me. As President, I
have a solemn responsibility to protect our nation and our people. And when the system fails,
it is my responsibility.
Over the past two weeks, we've been reminded again of the challenge we face in protecting
our country against a foe that is bent on our destruction. And while passions and politics can
often obscure the hard work before us, let's be clear about what this moment demands. We
are at war. We are at war against al Qaeda, a far-reaching network of violence and hatred
that attacked us on 9/11, that killed nearly 3,000 innocent people, and that is plotting to
strike us again. And we will do whatever it takes to defeat them.
And we've made progress. Al Qaeda's leadership is hunkered down. We have worked closely
with partners, including Yemen, to inflict major blows against al Qaeda leaders. And we have
disrupted plots at home and abroad, and saved American lives.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we know that the vast majority of Muslims reject al Qaeda. But it is clear that al Qaeda
increasingly seeks to recruit individuals without known terrorist affiliations not just in the
Middle East, but in Africa and other places, to do their bidding. That's why I've directed my
national security team to develop a strategy that addresses the unique challenges posed by
lone recruits. And that's why we must communicate clearly to Muslims around the world that
al Qaeda offers nothing except a bankrupt vision of misery and death –- including the murder
of fellow Muslims –- while the United States stands with those who seek justice and progress.
To advance that progress, we've sought new beginnings with Muslim communities around the
world, one in which we engage on the basis of mutual interest and mutual respect, and work
together to fulfill the aspirations that all people share -- to get an education, to work with
dignity, to live in peace and security. That's what America believes in. That's the vision that
is far more powerful than the hatred of these violent extremists.
Here at home, we will strengthen our defenses, but we will not succumb to a siege mentality
that sacrifices the open society and liberties and values that we cherish as Americans,
because great and proud nations don't hunker down and hide behind walls of suspicion and
mistrust. That is exactly what our adversaries want, and so long as I am President, we will
never hand them that victory. We will define the character of our country, not some band of
small men intent on killing innocent men, women and children.
And in this cause, every one of us -- every American, every elected official -- can do our part.
Instead of giving into cynicism and division, let's move forward with the confidence and
optimism and unity that defines us as a people. For now is not a time for partisanship, it's a
time for citizenship -- a time to come together and work together with the seriousness of
purpose that our national security demands.
That's what it means to be strong in the face of violent extremism. That's how we will prevail
in this fight. And that's how we will protect our country and pass it -- safer and stronger -- to
the next generation.
Thanks very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329871" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Bagram_Air_Base_December_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Bagram%20Air%20Base%20December%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to Troops at Bagram Air Field
delivered 3 December 2010, Parwan Province, Afghanistan

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, everybody! I’m sorry, Bagram, I can’t hear you. Air Assault! It is great to be back. Let
me first of all thank the 101st Airborne Division Band. Where’s the band? Give them a big
round of applause. Thank you.
To Chief Thomas Hager and to the commander and conductor. I gather we had a couple of
other bands playing, Manifest Destiny and Nuts. I don’t know about, you know -- I don’t
know how they sounded. What did you think? Were they pretty good? Hooah!
It is great to be back. And I apologize for keeping you guys up late, coming on such short
notice. But I wanted to make sure that I could spend a little time this holiday with the men
and women of the finest fighting force that the world has ever known, and that’s all of you.
I want to thank General Petraeus, not only for the introduction and the T-shirts, but for
General Petraeus’s lifetime of service. This is somebody who has helped change the way we
fight wars and win wars in the 21st century. And I am very grateful that he agreed to take
command of our efforts here in Afghanistan. He has been an extraordinary warrior on behalf
of the American people. Thank you, David Petraeus.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I want to thank all your outstanding leaders who welcomed me here, including General John
Campbell; Admiral Bill McRaven from the 455th Air Expeditionary Wing; Colonel Todd
Canterbury. I want to salute your great senior enlisted leaders, including Command Sergeant
Major Scott Schroeder -- hooah! -- Command Sergeant Major Chris Farris, and Command
Chief Craig Adams. Hooah!
I also want to acknowledge the outstanding work that our civilians are doing each and every
day, starting with Karl Eikenberry all the way through to your senior civilian representative
Thomas Gibbons and all the civilians who are here. They are fighting alongside you. They are
putting themselves at risk. They are away from their families. And we are very, very
grateful to them as well. So give them a big round of applause.
I think we’ve got every service here tonight. We’ve got Army. We’ve got Navy. We’ve got Air
Force. I think we may have a few Marines around, too. And a whole lot of folks from the 101st
Airborne Division, The Screaming Eagles.
Here in Afghanistan, you are all -- Coast Guard, is that what I heard? Here in Afghanistan, all
of you are part of one team, serving together, succeeding together, except maybe in next
week’s Army-Navy game. As your Commander-in-Chief, I’ve got to stay neutral on that. We
also have some ISAF partners here as well.
You know, when I was here in the spring, we had a coalition of 43 nations. Now we’ve got a
coalition of 49 nations. And this sends a powerful message that the coalition of nations that
supports Afghanistan is strong and is growing.
Now, I’m not here to give a long speech. I want to shake as many hands as I can. Hooah!
But let me say that at this time of year, Americans are giving thanks for all the blessings that
we have. And as we begin this holiday season, there is no place that I’d rather be than be
here with you.
I know it’s not easy for all of you to be away from home, especially during the holidays. And I
know it’s hard on your families. They’ve got an empty seat at the dinner table. Sometimes
during the holiday season that’s when you feel the absence of somebody you love most
acutely.
But here’s what I want you to know. As President of the United States, I have no greater
responsibility than keeping the American people secure. I could not meet that responsibility,
we could not protect the American people, we could not enjoy the blessings of our liberty
without the extraordinary service that each and every one of you perform each and every day.
So on behalf of me, on behalf of Michelle, on behalf of Malia and Sasha, on behalf of more
than 300 million Americans, we are here to say thank you. Hooah! We are here to say thank
you for everything that you do.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I also want to say thank you to your families back home so that when you talk to them
you know that they know. They’re serving here with you -- in mind and spirit, if not in body.
Millions of Americans give thanks this holiday season just as generations have before when
they think about our armed services. You’re part of an unbroken line of Americans who have
given up your comfort, your ease, your convenience for America’s security.
It was on another cold December more than 200 years ago that a band of patriots helped to
found our nation, defeat an empire -- from that icy river to the fields of Europe, from the
islands in the Pacific to the hills of Korea, from the jungles of Vietnam to the deserts of Iraq,
those who went before you, they also found themselves in this season of peace serving in
war. They did it for the same reason that all of you do -- because the freedom and the liberty
that we treasure, that’s not simply a birthright. It has to be earned by the sacrifices of
generations -- generations of patriots, men and women who step forward and say, send me.
I know somebody has got to do it, and I’m willing to serve. Men and women who are willing
to risk all and some who gave all to keep us safe, to keep us free.
In our time, in this 21st century, when so many other institutions seem to be shirking their
responsibilities, you’ve embraced your responsibilities. You’ve shown why the United States
military remains the most trusted institution in America.
That’s the legacy that your generation has forged during this decade of trial in Iraq and here
in Afghanistan. That’s the legacy that you’re carrying forward.
As General Petraeus mentioned, one year ago I ordered additional troops to serve in this
country that was the staging ground for the 9/11 attacks. All of those troops are now in
place. And thanks to your service, we are making important progress. You are protecting
your country. You’re achieving your objectives. You will succeed in your mission. Hooah!
We said we were going to break the Taliban’s momentum, and that’s what you’re doing.
You’re going on the offense, tired of playing defense, targeting their leaders, pushing them
out of their strongholds. Today we can be proud that there are fewer areas under Taliban
control and more Afghans have a chance to build a more hopeful future.
We said a year ago that we’re going to build the capacity of the Afghan people. And that’s
what you’re doing, meeting our recruitment targets, training Afghan forces, partnering with
those Afghans who want to build a stronger and more stable and more prosperous
Afghanistan.
I don’t need to tell you this is a tough fight. I just came from the medical unit and saw our
wounded warriors, pinned some Purple Hearts. I just talked to the platoon that lost six of
their buddies in a senseless act of violence.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is tough business. Progress comes slow. There are going to be difficult days ahead.
Progress comes at a high price. So many of you have stood before the solemn battle cross,
display of boots, a rifle, a helmet, and said good-bye to a fallen comrade.
This year alone nearly 100 members of 101st have given their last full measure of devotion.
There are few days when I don’t sign a letter to a military family expressing our nation’s
gratitude and grief at their profound sacrifice. And this holiday season our thoughts and
prayers are with those who’ve lost a loved one -- the father and mother, the son or daughter,
the brother or sister or friend who’s not coming home. And we know that their memories will
never be forgotten and that their life has added to the life of our nation.

And because of the service of the men and women of the United
States military, because of the progress you’re making, we look forward to a new phase next
year, the beginning of a transition to Afghan responsibility.
As we do, we continue to forge a partnership with the Afghan people for the long term. And
we will never let this country serve as a safe haven for terrorists who would attack the United
States of America again. That will never happen. Hooah!
This part of the world is the center of a global effort where we are going to disrupt and
dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies. And that’s why you’re here. That’s
why your mission matters so much. That’s why you must succeed -- because this effort is
about the safety of our communities back home and the dignity of the Afghan people who
don’t want to live in tyranny.
Now, even though it is a hallmark of American democracy that we have our arguments back
home, we have our debates, we have our elections, I can say without hesitation that there is
no division on one thing, no hesitation on one thing -- and that is the uniform support of our
men and women who are serving in the armed services. Hooah!
Everybody -- everybody is behind you. Everybody back home is behind you. Everybody,
from north to south to east to west, from sea to shining sea, the American people are united
in support of you and your families.
And as your Commander-in-Chief, I also want you to know that we will do whatever it takes to
make sure that you have the strategy and the resources and the equipment and the
leadership to get this done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
You may have noticed that during these tough budget times, I took the step of freezing pay
for our federal workforce. But because of the service that you rendered, all who wear the
uniform of the United States of America are exempt from that action. Hooah!
And we’re going to make -- we’re going to spare no effort to make sure that your families
have the support that they deserve as well. That doesn’t just matter to me. It’s also a top
priority for Michelle -- to make sure that Americans understand the sacrifices that your
families are making. As she likes to say, 100 percent of Americans need to be right -- they
are supporting you and your families -- 100 percent. Only 1 percent are fighting these wars,
but 100 percent of us have to be behind you and your families.
Your generation, the generation of Afghanistan and Iraq, has met every mission that you’ve
been given. You’ve served tour after tour. You’ve earned not just our admiration; you’ve
earned your place in American history alongside those greatest generations.
And the stories of those who served in these wars are too numerous to tell. But one of my
greatest privileges as President is to get to know the stories of those who earn the Medal of
Honor.
Two months ago, I presented the Medal to the parents of Staff Sergeant Robert Miller, who
gave his life here in Afghanistan as a member of the Green Berets. His valor, charging toward
some 150 insurgents, saved the lives of nearly two dozen American and Afghan comrades.
Last month, we held another ceremony. For the first time in nearly 40 years, the recipient of
the Medal of Honor for an ongoing conflict was actually able to accept it in person. His name
is Staff Sergeant Salvatore Giunta. And some of you may have seen his story, but I want to
tell it again tonight because of what it says not just about our armed forces, but also what it
says about the country that we love.
So three years ago, Sal and his platoon were in Korengal Valley. When their patrol was
ambushed, two Americans lay wounded up ahead. That’s when Sal and his men counterattacked. Again and again and again, they were being rained down with fire. But they just
kept counter-attacking because they wanted to get their two buddies.
And when he saw one of his teammates wounded and being carried away by insurgents, Sal
rushed in to help his friends -- despite the bullets. Despite the danger, he kept on pressing
forward. It was an incredibly intense firefight. And by the time it was finished, every single
member of that platoon had shrapnel or a bullet hole in their gear. Five were wounded, and
two had given their lives.
Now, Sal is a pretty humble guy. And so when he came to the White House he said, “You
know, I didn’t do anything special.” He said he was just doing his job, that he didn’t do
anything that his brothers wouldn’t have done for him.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
“If I’m a hero,” he said, “then every man who stands around me, every woman in the military,
every person who defends this country is also a hero.”
And he’s right. Each of you has your own story. Each of you is writing your own chapter in
the story of America and the story of American armed forces. Each of you have some losses.
Each of you have made sacrifices. You come from every conceivable background -- from big
cities and small towns, from every race and faith and station. You’ve come together to serve
a greater cause, one that matters to the citizens of your country back home and to strangers
who live a world away.
So make no mistake, through your service, you demonstrate the content of the American
character. Sal is right -- every single one of you is a hero.
Some people ask whether America’s best days lie ahead or whether our greatness stretches
back behind us in the stories of those who’ve gone before. And when I look out at all of you, I
know the answer to that. You give me hope. You give me inspiration. Your resolve shows
that Americans will never succumb to fear. Your selfless service shows who we are, who we
always will be -- united as one people and united as one nation -- for you embody and stand
up for the values that make us what we are as a people.
America is not defined by our borders. We are defined by a common creed. In this holiday
season, it’s worth remembering that “we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that we are endowed by our Creator by certain inalienable rights, that among
these are the right to life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness.”
And that’s what you’re fighting for here in Afghanistan, and that’s what you’re protecting back
home. And that belief is more powerful than any adversary.
So we may face a tough enemy in Afghanistan, and we’re in a period of tough challenges back
home, but we did not become the nation that we are because we do what’s easy. As
Americans we’ve endured and we’ve grown stronger, and we remain the Land of the Free only
because we are also Home of the Brave.
And because of you, I know that once more, we will prevail. So thank you. God bless you,
and God bless the United States of America. Hooah!
Thank you, everybody, and Happy New Year. Thank you, everybody. God bless you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329569" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Berlin_Address.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Berlin%20Address.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the People of Berlin
delivered 24 July 2008, Victory Column

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you to the citizens of Berlin and -- and thank you to the people of Germany. Let me
thank Chancellor Merkel and Foreign Minister Steinmeier for welcoming me earlier today.
Thank you Mayor Wowereit, the Berlin Senate, the police, and most of all thanks to all of you
for this extraordinary welcome. Thank you.
I come to Berlin as so many of my countrymen have come before; although tonight, I speak
to you not as a candidate for President, but as a citizen -- a proud citizen of the United States,
and a fellow citizen of the world.
I know that I don’t look like the Americans who’ve previously spoken in this great city. The
journey that led me here is improbable. My mother was born in the heartland of America, but
my father grew up herding goats in Kenya. His father -- His father -- my grandfather -- was a
cook, a domestic servant to the British.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
At the height of the Cold War, my father decided, like so many others in the forgotten corners
of the world, that his yearning -- his dream -- required the freedom and opportunity promised
by the West. And so he wrote letter after letter to universities all across America until
somebody, somewhere answered his prayer for a better life.
That is why I am here. And you are here because you too know that yearning. This city, of all
cities, knows the dream of freedom. And you know that the only reason we stand here tonight
is because men and women from both of our nations came together to work, and struggle,
and sacrifice for that better life.
Ours is a partnership that truly began 60 years ago this summer, on the day when the first
American plane touched down at Tempelhof. On that day -- On that day much of this
continent still lay in ruin. The rubble of this city had yet to be built into a wall. The Soviet
shadow had swept across Eastern Europe, while in the West, America, Britain, and France
took their stock of their losses, and pondered how the world might be remade.
This is where the two sides met. And on the twenty-fourth of June, 1948, the Communists
chose to blockade the western part of the city. They cut off food and supplies to more than
two million Germans in an effort to extinguish the last flame of freedom in Berlin.
The size of our forces was no match for the larger Soviet Army. And yet retreat would have
allowed Communism to march across Europe. Where the last war had ended, another World
War could have easily begun. And all that stood in the way was Berlin. And that’s when -that's when the airlift began, when the largest and most unlikely rescue in the history brought
food and hope to the people of this city.
The odds were stacked against success. In the winter, a heavy fog filled the sky above, and
many planes were forced to turn back without dropping off the needed supplies. The streets
where we stand were filled with hungry families who had no comfort from the cold.
But in the darkest hours, the people of Berlin kept the flame of hope burning. The people of
Berlin refused to give up. And on one fall day, hundreds of thousands of Berliners came here,
to the Tiergarten, and heard the city’s mayor implore the world not to give up on freedom.
“There is only one possibility,” he said. “For us to stand together united until this battle is
won…The people of Berlin have spoken. We have done our duty," he said, "and we will keep
on doing our duty. People of the world, now do your duty. People of the world, look at Berlin.”
People of the world -- look at Berlin!

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Look at Berlin, where Germans and Americans learned to work together and trust each other
less than three years after facing each other on the field of battle.
Look at Berlin, where the determination of a people met the generosity of the Marshall Plan
and created a German miracle; where a -- where a victory over tyranny gave rise to NATO,
the greatest alliance ever formed to defend our common security.
Look at Berlin, where the bullet holes in the buildings and the somber stones and pillars near
the Brandenburg Gate insist that we never forget our common humanity.
People of the world -- look at Berlin, where a wall came down, a continent came together, and
history proved that there is no challenge too great for a world that stands as one.
Sixty years after the airlift, we are called upon again. History has led us to a new crossroad,
with new promise and new peril. When you, the German people, tore down that wall -- a wall
that divided East and West; freedom and tyranny; fear and hope -- walls came tumbling down
around the world. From Kiev to Cape Town, prison camps were closed, and the doors of
democracy were opened. Markets opened too, and the spread of information and technology
reduced barriers to opportunity and prosperity. While the 20th century taught us that we
share a common destiny, the 21st century has revealed a world more intertwined than at any
time in human history.
The fall of the Berlin Wall brought new hope. But that very closeness has given rise to new
dangers -- dangers that cannot be contained within the borders of a country or by the
distance of an ocean.
Think about it: The terrorists of September 11th plotted in Hamburg and trained in Kandahar
and Karachi before killing thousands from all over the globe on American soil. As we speak,
cars in Boston and factories in Beijing are melting the ice caps in the Arctic, shrinking
coastlines in the Atlantic, and bringing drought to farms from Kansas to Kenya.
Poorly secured nuclear material in the former Soviet Union, or secrets from a scientist in
Pakistan could help build a bomb that detonates in Paris. The poppies in Afghanistan come to
Berlin in the form of the heroin. The poverty and violence in Somalia breeds the terror of
tomorrow. The genocide in Darfur shames the conscience of us all.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
In this new world, such dangerous currents have swept along faster than our efforts to contain
them. And that is why we cannot afford to be divided. No one nation, no matter how large or
powerful, can defeat such challenges alone. None of us can deny these threats, or escape
responsi[bility] in meeting them. In the absence of Soviet tanks and a terrible wall, it has
become easy to forget this truth. And if we’re honest with each other, we know that
sometimes, on both sides of the Atlantic, we have drifted apart, and forgotten our shared
destiny.
In Europe, the view that America is part of what has gone wrong in our world, rather than a
force to help us make it right, has become all too common. In America, there are voices that
deride and deny the importance of Europe’s role in our security and our future. Both views
miss the truth: that Europeans today are bearing new burdens and taking more responsibility
in critical parts of the world; and that just as American bases built in the last century still help
to defend the security of this continent, so does our country still sacrifice greatly for freedom
around the globe.
Yes, there have been differences between America and Europe. No doubt, there will be
differences in the future. But the burdens of global citizenship continue to bind us together. A
change of leadership in Washington will not lift this burden. In this new century, Americans
and Europeans alike will be required to do more -- not less. Partnership and cooperation
among nations is not a choice; it is the only way, the one way, to protect our common
security and advance our common humanity.
That is why the greatest danger of all is to allow new walls to divide us from one another. The
walls between old allies on either side of the Atlantic cannot stand. The walls between the
countries with the most and those with the least cannot stand. The walls between races and
tribes; natives and immigrants; Christians and Muslims and Jews cannot stand. These now are
the walls we must tear down.
We know -- We know that these walls have fallen before. After centuries of strife, the people
of Europe have formed a Union of promise and prosperity. Here, at the base of a column built
to mark victory in war, we meet in the center of a Europe at peace. Not only have walls come
down in Berlin, but they've come down in Belfast, where Protestant and Catholic found a way
to live together; in the Balkans, where our Atlantic alliance ended wars and brought savage
war criminals to justice; and in South Africa, where the struggle of a courageous people
defeated apartheid.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So history reminds us that walls can be torn down. But the task is never easy. True
partnership and true progress requires constant work and sustained sacrifice. They require
sharing the burdens of development and diplomacy; of peace and progress. They require allies
who will listen to each other, learn from each other and, most of all, trust each other.
That is why America cannot turn inward. That is why Europe cannot turn inward. America has
no better partner than Europe. Now -- Now is the time to build new bridges across the globe
as strong as the one that binds us across the Atlantic. Now is the time to join together,
through constant cooperation and strong institutions and shared sacrifice and a global
commitment to progress, to meet the challenges of the 21st century. It was this spirit that led
airlift planes to appear in the sky above our heads, and people to assemble where we stand
today. And this is the moment when our nations -- and all nations -- must summon that spirit
anew.
This is the moment when we must defeat terror and dry up the well of extremism that
supports it. This threat is real and we cannot shrink from our responsibility to combat it. If we
could create NATO to face down the Soviet Union, we can join in a new and global partnership
to dismantle the networks that have struck in Madrid and Amman; in London and Bali; in
Washington and New York. If we could win a battle of ideas against the communists, we can
stand with the vast majority of Muslims who reject the extremism that leads to hate instead of
hope.
This is the moment when we must renew our resolve to rout the terrorists who threaten our
security in Afghanistan, and the traffickers who sell drugs on your streets. No one welcomes
war. I recognize the enormous difficulties in Afghanistan. But my country and yours have a
stake in seeing that NATO’s first mission beyond Europe’s borders is a success. For the people
of Afghanistan, and for our shared security, the work must be done. America can't do this
alone. The Afghan people need our troops and your troops; our support and your support to
defeat the Taliban and al Qaeda, to develop their economy, and to help them rebuild their
nation. We have too much at stake to turn back now.
This -- This is the moment when we must renew the goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
The two superpowers that faced each other across the wall of this city came too close too
often to destroying all we have built and all that we love. With that wall gone, we need not
stand idly by and watch the further spread of the deadly atom. It is time to secure all loose
nuclear materials; to stop the spread of nuclear weapons; and to reduce the arsenals from
another era. This is the moment to begin the work of seeking the peace of a world without
nuclear weapons.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is the moment when every nation in Europe must have the chance to choose its own
tomorrow, free from the shadows of yesterday. In this century, we need a strong European
Union that deepens the security and prosperity of this continent, while extending a hand
abroad. In this century -- in this city of all cities -- we must reject the Cold War mind-set of
the past, and resolve to work with Russia when we can, to stand up for our values when we
must, and to seek a partnership that extends across this entire continent.
This is the moment when we must build on the wealth that opens [sic] markets have created,
and share its benefits more equitably. Trade has been a cornerstone of our growth and global
development. But we will not be able to sustain this growth if it favors the few, and not the
many. Together -- Together we must forge trade that truly rewards the work that creates
wealth, with meaningful protections for our people and our planet. This is the moment for
trade that is free and fair for all.
This is the moment we must help answer the call for a new dawn in the Middle East. My
country must stand with yours and with Europe in sending a direct message to Iran that it
must abandon its nuclear ambitions. We must support the Lebanese who've marched and bled
for democracy, and the Israelis and the Palestinians who seek a secure and lasting peace. And
despite -- despite past differences, this is the moment when the world should support the
millions of Iraqis who seek to rebuild their lives, even as we pass responsibility to the Iraqi
government and finally bring this war to a close.
This -- This is the moment when we must come together to save this planet. Let us resolve
that we will not leave our children to a world where the oceans rise and famine spreads and
terrible storms devastate our lands. Let us resolve that all nations -- including my own -- will
act with the same seriousness of purpose as has your nation, and reduce the carbon we send
into our atmosphere. This -- This is the moment to give our children back their future. This is
the moment to stand as one.
And this is the moment when we must give hope to those left behind in a globalized world. We
must remember that the Cold War born in this city was not a battle for land or treasure. Sixty
years ago, the planes that flew over Berlin did not drop bombs; instead they delivered food,
and coal, and candy to grateful children. And in that show of solidarity, those pilots won more
than a military victory. They won hearts and minds; love and loyalty and trust -- not just from
the people in this city, but from all those who heard the story of what they did here.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now the world will watch and remember what we do here -- what we do with this moment.
Will we extend our hand to the people in the forgotten corners of this world who yearn for
lives marked by dignity and opportunity, by security and justice? Will we lift the child in
Bangladesh from poverty, and shelter the refugee in Chad, and banish the scourge of AIDS in
our time?
Will we stand for the human rights of the dissident in Burma, the blogger in Iran, or the voter
in Zimbabwe? Will we give meaning to the words “never again” in Darfur?
Will we acknowledge -- Will we acknowledge that there is no more powerful example than the
one each of our nations projects to the world? Will we reject torture and stand for the rule of
law? Will we -- Will we -- Will we welcome immigrants from different lands, and shun
discrimination against those who don’t look like us or worship like we do, and keep the
promise of equality and opportunity for all of our people?
People of Berlin -- people of the world -- this is our moment. This is our time.
I know my country has not perfected itself. At times, we’ve struggled to keep the promise of
liberty and equality for all of our people. We’ve made our share of mistakes, and there are
times when our actions around the world have not lived up to our best intentions.
But I also know how much I love America. I know that for more than two centuries, we have
strived -- at great cost and great sacrifice -- to form a more perfect union; to seek, with other
nations, a more hopeful world. Our allegiance has never been to any particular tribe or
kingdom -- indeed, every language is spoken in our country; every culture has left its imprint
on ours; every point of view is expressed in our public squares. What has always united us,
what has always driven our people, what drew my father to America’s shores -- is a set of
ideals that speak to aspirations shared by all people: that we can live free from fear and free
from want; that we can speak our minds and assemble with whomever we choose and
worship as we please.
These are the aspiration[s] that join the fates of all nations in this city. These aspirations are
bigger than anything that drives us apart. It is because of these aspirations that the airlift
began. It is because of these aspirations that all free people -- everywhere -- became citizens
of Berlin. It is in pursuit of these aspirations that a new generation -- our generation -- must
make our mark on the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
People of Berlin -- and people of the world -- the scale of our challenge is great. The road
ahead will be long. But I come before you to say that we are heirs to a struggle for freedom.
We are a people of improbable hope. With an eye toward the future, with resolve in our heart,
let us remember this history, and answer our destiny, and remake the world once again.
Thank you, Berlin. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Uncertain

Updated 12/27/21

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329873" filename="Barack_Obama___Bill_Clinton_-_Tax_Presser.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20&amp;%20Bill%20Clinton%20-%20Tax%20Presser.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama & William J. Clinton
Press Conference on Tax Cuts
delivered 10 December 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

President Obama: I thought it was a slow day, so I’ve -Question: Slow news day, huh?
President Obama: -- bring the other guy in.
Obviously, there’s a big debate going on about taxes, and about the need to grow the
economy and to create jobs. And just about every day this week, I’ve been making an
argument as to why the agreement that we’ve struck to provide billions of dollars in payroll
tax cuts that can immediately help rejuvenate the economy, as well as tax cuts for middleclass families, unemployment insurance for folks who desperately need it, credits for college,
Child Tax Credits, as well as a range of business investments credits are so important to make
sure that we keep this recovery moving.
I just had a terrific meeting with the former President, President Bill Clinton. And we just
happened to have this as a topic of conversation. And I thought, given the fact that he
presided over as good an economy as we’ve seen in our lifetimes, that it might be useful for
him to share some of his thoughts.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’m going to let him speak very briefly. And then I’ve actually got to go over and do some -just one more Christmas party. So he may decide he wants to take some questions, but I
want to make sure that you guys hear it from him directly.
Former President Clinton: Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, I feel awkward
being here, and now you’re going to leave me all by myself. Let me just say a couple of
things. First of all, I still spend about an hour a day trying to study this economy. And I’m
not running for anything, and I don’t have a political agenda. I just -- I try to figure out what
to do.
I have reviewed this agreement that the President reached with Republican leaders. And I
want to make full disclosure I make quite a bit of money now, so the position that the
Republicans have urged will personally benefit me. And on its own, I wouldn’t support it
because I don’t think that my tax cut is the most economically efficient way to get the
economy going again. But I don’t want to be in the dark about the fact that I will receive the
continuation of the tax rates.
However, the agreement taken as a whole is, I believe, the best bipartisan agreement we can
reach to help the largest number of Americans, and to maximize the chances that the
economic recovery will accelerate and create more jobs, and to minimize the chances that it
will slip back, which is what has happened in other financial collapses. Like, that’s what Japan
faced, and it’s something that we have to avoid in America.
Why do I say that? First of all, because clearly the extension of unemployment, which gives
people a percentage of the income they were previously making, will -- that money will be
spent and it will bolster the economy for the next couple of years.
Secondly, the conversion of the Make Work Pay Tax Credit, which the President passed before,
which goes to -- went to 95 percent of the American people, converting that into an $120
billion one-year payroll tax relief act is, according to all the economic analyses, the single
most effective tax cut you can do to support economic activity. This will actually create a fair
number of jobs. I expect it to lower the unemployment rate and keep us going.
Thirdly, and one thing I haven’t seen much about in the reports, this agreement will really
help America over the long term, because it continues the credits for manufacturing jobs
related to energy coming in to America. And I’ll remind you, just in the last two years, there
have been 30 high-powered battery factories either opened or presently being built in
America, taking us from 2 to 20 percent of the world’s share of that. And we’re going to
probably be at 40 percent by 2014. This is a really important thing, bringing manufacturing
back to America, because it’s a huge multiplier to create new jobs.
So in my opinion, this is a good bill. And I hope that my fellow Democrats will support it. I
thank the Republican leaders for agreeing to include things that were important to the
President.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
There is never a perfect bipartisan bill in the eyes of a partisan. And we all see this
differently. But I really believe this will be a significant net-plus for the country. I also think
that in general a lot of people are heaving a sigh of relief that there’s finally been some
agreement on something.
But don't minimize the impact of the unemployment relief for working families, of the payroll
tax relief, and of the continuation of the incentives to grow jobs, which will trigger more credit
coming out of the banks.
Keep in mind, ultimately the long-term answer here is to get the $2 trillion, which banks now
have in cash reserves uncommitted to loans, out there in the economy again, the $1.8 trillion
in corporate treasuries not now being invested out there in the economy again. I think this is
a net-plus.
And you know how I feel. I think the people that benefit most should pay most. That's
always been my position -- not for class warfare reasons; for reasons of fairness in rebuilding
the middle class in America. But we have the distribution of authority we have now in the
Congress and what we’re going to have in January, and I think this is a much, much better
agreement than would be reached were we to wait until January. And I think it will have a
much more positive impact on the economy.
So for whatever it’s worth, that's what I think.
President Obama: That’s worth a lot.
Former President Clinton: I would like to say one other thing on another subject, just to be
recorded on the record. They don't need my support on this because we have some good
Republican support, including the first President Bush. I think this START agreement is very
important to the future of our national security.
And it is not a radical agreement. Boris Yeltsin and I agreed in principle on this same
reduction, and there was no way in the wide world he could get it through the Russian Duma
that existed at the time in his second term. So we didn't proceed because it couldn’t be
ratified there. I’m not sure the Senate would have ratified it then, but I think they will not
with enough encouragement.
But the cooperation that we will get from the Russians, and the signal that will be sent to the
world on nonproliferation, when all these other things are going on which threaten to increase
nuclear proliferation, is very important. One of the things you know is that when people fool
with these weapons, they're expensive to build, expensive to maintain, and expensive to
secure the material that goes into making the weapons.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is something that is profoundly important. This ought to be way beyond party. They’ve
worked very hard. They’ve worked out, in my opinion, the details. And I hope it will be
ratified.
Question: Mr. President.
Former President Clinton: Yes.
Question: First of all, a lot of Democrats on Capitol Hill say this is a bad deal; that President
Obama could have gotten more. What’s your message to them? And then if I could also just
ask -- well, go ahead. You can answer -Former President Clinton: First, my message is, I don't believe that's true because in
January, they will be in the majority. And this would dramatically reduce their incentive to
extend unemployment benefits, to support the conversion of the Make Work Pay tax credits
President Obama enacted into this payroll tax deduction, which as I said, I read all these
economic studies. Every single, unbiased, economic study says the best thing you can do if
you’re going to take a tax-cut path to grow the economy is to give payroll tax relief.
I just got back from a trip to Asia with my foundation. Hong Kong, super free-market place,
had a stimulus. Well, I guess we’re not supposed to use that word any more. You know what
they did? They gave almost 10 percent of the people -- low-income, working people -- two
months free rent in public housing. They gave some money to the seniors. But the most
important thing they did was payroll tax relief for a year.
This is -- all the people who study this believe it’s the number one thing, so I don't believe
they can get a better deal by waiting.
And I think the other thing that nobody is talking about, but I’m telling you it’s important, I
live out there now, and I do a lot of this energy work, these tax credits have made us
competitive again.
I didn't see a single story that credited Senator Reid’s election with the fact that with three
weeks before the election, two new plants were announced in Nevada, which has the highest
unemployment rate in the state, a thousand people making LED lights, a thousand people
making wind turbines for that big wind farm in Texas, both companies owned by Chinese
interests who said in no uncertain terms we’re here because you decided to compete with us
for the future, and you gave us tax credits so we can pay higher labor costs because we save
the transportation costs because of these credits. I don't believe there is a better deal out
there.
Question: And then as a follow-up, you mentioned the Republican Congress taking office in
January. What was your advice to President Obama today about how to deal with the
Congress from the opposition party?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Former President Clinton: I have a general rule which is that whatever he asked me about
my advice, and whatever I say should become public only if he decides to make it public. He
can say whatever he wants, but -Question: What do you think?
President Obama: Here’s what I’ll say, is I’ve been keeping the First Lady waiting for about
half an hour, so I’m going to take off, but -Former President Clinton: I don't want to make her mad, please go.
President Obama: You’re in good hands, and Gibbs will call last question.
Former President Clinton: Yes, help me. Thank you. Yes, go ahead.
Question: Mr. President, is there anything else that can be done in your opinion to loosen up
the private credit markets that have been so tight? I mean if people can’t get their hands on
capital, how can they be the entrepreneurs that they want to be? And this is something that
the Republicans have fought all along. What’s the next step?

Former President Clinton: First of all, let me just run through the numbers again. We’re
not talking about high-risk stuff. That's what the financial regulation bill tries to stop and
charges the federal regulators with -- even if the Wall Street banks get -- we all know they
have to be able to have more leverage than the traditional community banks tend to want up
in the Dakotas or Arkansas or anyplace else.
But let’s start with the community banks. If they loan money conservatively, they can loan
$10 for every dollar they have in the bank. If they have $2 trillion uncommitted to loans,
even though some of them may have a few mortgage issues unresolved, most of that
mortgage debt has been off-loaded to Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac or has vanished into cybersphere with those securitized subprime mortgages. I don't like the securities, but they
happened.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
So what I believe is going on is, first of all, the business community has not come forward as
aggressively -- the small business community. And this bill did preserve all those small
business incentives that were enacted by the Congress in the previous two years. There are
like 16 different measures that give incentives for small businesses to take loans and loan
guarantees and that kind of thing.
It appears to me that the community banks, at least, are somewhat uncertain about how the
financial reform bill, which I supported, applies to them and what the costs of compliance
might be. You remember, the two big things that bill did was to require the federal regulators
to monitor every month the big banks that caused the meltdown and to require them to set
aside more capital.
And then it set up an orderly bankruptcy mechanism and banned future bailouts. It said -that bill actually says: If this happens again, the shareholders and the executives have to eat
it.
But there’s a whole lot of other things in credit cards and other matters that deal with it. I
think it is really, really important just to do an aggressive, 100 percent information drench. I
mean I would go so far as to do it bank by bank by bank by bank so that everybody knows
exactly what they have to do, exactly what it costs and how quickly this can all be resolved.
And then I think it’s important to make sure that all these community banks and the people
who might borrow from them understand where the small businesses of America are and
where the manufacturers are with the various loan guarantees and credits and deductions that
are available under these laws.
I still think -- you know, we too often assume that when a law passes, people know it passed,
and they know what’s in it, and they know how it applies to them. That may not be true in
this case because there’s been so much activity and so much debate about it that was a
debate that occurred in the context of a campaign rather than in the context of, “Let me tell
you how this works, come here, let’s figure out how to get you a loan.” So in my opinion,
that's what needs to be done over the next two or three months.
The money is there to get this country out of this mess. Two trillion dollars in the bank is $20
trillion in loans. Now, there’s not that much guaranteed, but there’s plenty.
And I also believe the same thing with big companies. We should analyze the situation of
every company that at a minimum has got a $1 billion or more in cash and ask them to be
honest with us about what would it take to get you back in the investment business.
These companies clearly have a preference for reinvesting in America, or they’d have put this
money somewhere else already. They have got -- it’s an amazing thing, $1.8 trillion in
corporate treasuries, 6.2 percent of their capitalized value. It’s been since 1964 that they had
those kind of cash balances relative to their value.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
So those are the things that I think we have to do now, so I can’t answer your question,
except the bankers I talked to in Arkansas, in small places that I visit around where I live in
New York, they all say, we know we need to ramp up the activity. We got to get the green
light about how we’re going to comply with these laws, and then we’ll go.
And you might be able to actually use your program to do it. You might be able to bring some
community bankers on, bring some regulars on, work through this stuff for people. I just
think they don't know yet.
Yes.
Question: Some of your fellow Democrats are saying that the President just didn't go in and
fight hard enough for his core principles; that he caved in. Politically, some say that he
should be a one-term President. Has he damaged not only his own political path, but has he
let the party down?
Former President Clinton: I don't believe so. I think -- I just respectfully disagree about
that. I think that a lot of -- look, a lot of them are hurting now. And I get it. And you know I
did 133 events for them. I believe the Congress in the last two years did a far better job than
the American people thought they did, at least the American people that voted in the
midterms.
And I went to extraordinary efforts to try to explain what I thought had been done in the ways
that I thought were most favorable to them. But we had an election. The results are what
they are. The numbers will only get worse in January in terms of negotiating.
And the President -- look, if we had 5 percent growth and unemployment was dropping like a
rock, maybe you could have a so-called Mexican standoff, and you could say, it will be you,
not me, the voters will hold responsible for raising taxes on middle-class people if they all go
down next year. That is not the circumstance we face.
The United States has suffered a severe financial collapse. These things take longer to get
over than normal recessions. We must first make sure we keep getting over it. We don’t
want to slip back down as Japan did.
And in order to make it happen over the long run, that’s why the question I was just asked is
so good, is we have to go beyond direct investments, whether they’re stimulus projects or tax
cuts, to private growth. But to get there, we have to achieve a higher level of growth that
triggers a confidence. So I personally believe this is a good deal and the best he could have
gotten under the circumstances. I just disagree. I understand why -- people have a right to
disagree with him. But I disagree.
Yes, sir.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: Mr. President, you’ve made a number of very effective calls for the health care
plan last year. Have you been asked to make any calls to Democratic members on the tax
deal? And, secondly, there are a lot of comparisons being made between the ’94 election and
the 2010 election. Do you think those are analogous? Are they similar situations?
Former President Clinton: It’s like all these things -- all of you will be under enormous
pressure to develop a storyline. And there are some parallels, and some that are different.
And you know, I’m -- I’ll let you do that. I’m out of politics now, except to say that I care
about my country and I want to get this economy going again.
And I believe that it is necessary for these parties to work together. And I think, for example,
the storyline is how well we work with the Republicans and all that. But we’ve played political
kabuki for a year, had two government shutdowns. We can’t afford that now. The only
reason we could do that is if the deficit was already coming down in a time when interest rates
were the problem, and the economy was coming out. People just didn’t feel it yet in ’94.
We can’t afford that. We have got to pull together. And both sides are going to have to eat
some things they don’t like, because we cannot afford to have the kind of impasse that we
had last time over a long period of time. We don’t want to slip back into a recession. We got
to keep this thing going and accelerate its pace. I think this is the best available option.
Mark.
Question: -- any calls -Question: Mr. President -Former President Clinton: Oh, I’m sorry, George, I have not. But in fairness, as soon as
the election was over, I took my foundation trip to Asia. Then I came back -- I just got back
from the West Coast, doing my annual trip out there. There are people that support the work
I do and my foundation. I flew overnight to get here today. And I have to leave again
tonight. If I were asked to, I would be happy to talk to anyone. But I have not been asked.
But, in fairness, the President didn’t have a chance to. He asked me to come down today,
because he knew I was going to -- Hillary and I were appearing before the Brookings Saban
Forum on the Middle East tonight.
Yes, Mark.
Question: Mr. President, I get the feeling that you’re happier to be here commenting and
giving advice than governing.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Former President Clinton: Oh, I had quite a good time governing. I am happy to be here, I
suppose, when the bullets that are fired are unlikely to hit me, unless they’re just ricocheting.
No, I’m glad to be here because I think the President made a good decision and because I
want my country to do well. And after the ’94 election, I said the American people, in their
infinite wisdom, have put us both in the same boat. So we’re going to either row or sink. And
I want us to row.
Question: Can you give us a Haiti update?
Former President Clinton: What?
Question: Can you give us a Haiti update? I know you were there.
Former President Clinton: Yes. I had a long talk with the Prime Minister today. And he,
first of all, has done I think a remarkable job of being a loyal prime minister, but not being
involved in the political imbroglio that’s going on, except to try to keep calm.
There was a decision made by the electoral council to review the vote in its entirety and to ask
some outside observers to come in who are not only credible but knowledgeable. And they
will announce exactly how they propose to do that. Today was a pretty calm day. And they
expect the weekend to be pretty calm.
We are going to have our commission meeting next week. We may move it to the Dominican
Republic. But I think the best thing that we can do for the people of Haiti is to prove that
Haitians on the commission, and the donors, are still committed to the long-term
reconstruction process, whoever gets elected president.
The best thing they can do is -- everyone understands they had to carry out this election
under enormously difficult circumstances. Even getting the ID cards to everybody, as you
know, proved difficult, because they were in those tented areas.
But what I can say is it was calmer today. It appears they are going to try to have a recount
procedure, which they hope will acquire more support from across the political spectrum.
And, meanwhile, we want the commission to keep working.
The World Bank just released about $70 billion of the $90 billion in projects we approved four
months ago. So that will go in. We’ll be hiring more people immediately on those projects.
And we’re going to approve a lot more projects on the 14th. And that’s my focus now.
Yes.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: Mr. President, I have to ask, do you think your appearance here today will help
sway votes where they’re needed the most right now, among House Democrats?
Former President Clinton: I have no idea.
Question: The reason I ask you that is because a lot of them are sort of antsy. And I know
you never used the term back in your first term, but they’re antsy about the precedent of
triangulation. They’re still smarting over that. And your appearance here today might not
necessarily push them in the direction that the President wants them to be pushed.
Former President Clinton: That’s right, it may not. But I would like to -- you know, I told
President Obama, and I’ll tell you, you ought to go back and read a lecture that Franklin
Roosevelt gave in 1926 before he was the Vice Presidential nominee, before he came down
with polio, to his old alma mater [inaudible], in which he discussed the dilemma of the
progressive movement in American politics.
I have an enormous amount of respect for the Democrats in the House. And I’ve already told
you I regret that so many of them lost. I think some of our best people lost. And I get where
they’re coming from.
I can only tell you that my economic analysis is that given all the alternatives that I can
imagine actually becoming law, this is the best economic result for America. And I think it is
enormous relief for America to think that both parties might vote for something, anything that
they could both agree on. And there is no way you can have a compromise without having
something in the bill that you don’t like.
So I don’t know if I can influence anybody. Heck, I couldn’t -- you know, I’d go some places
and the people I campaigned for won. In some places, the people I campaigned for lost. I
don’t know. All I can tell you is what I think.
Question: Considering your credibility on the deficit, what do you think about concerns about
the short-term deficit and the long-term deficit, and where our country is going?
Former President Clinton: I’m happy to address that because I don’t think that -- I don’t
think I did a good enough job in this election season, obviously, and I’m not sure we did.
The difference between now and when I became President, when we immediately went after
the deficit, is quite simple. When I became President, it was after 12 years in which the
accumulative debt of the country had risen from $1 to $4 trillion. It was the first period in
American history when we had ever run structural deficits of any size. And so we were having
to pay too much for money. It was costing us a lot to borrow money in the public sector,
taking I think it was 14 cents of every dollar on the debt at the time. And it was crowding out
the opportunity of the private sector to borrow money, and raising their cost. And that’s
sparked the recession that we had in the early ‘90s.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
What happened this time was totally different. This time there was a collapse of a financial
system, which took interest rates to zero. Now, I know there’s a lot of alarm now. People
say, oh, the interest rates went up on bond and in debt in the last couple of days. And they
said, oh, is it because of the increase in the -- increasing the deficit in the short term? Is it
because of the economy growing? That doesn’t bother me. We have to get out of deflation.
The biggest problem we have now is deflation.
So, look, I’m a Depression-era kid. I don’t like deficits ever, really. We had four surpluses
when I was President. That’s what I like. I like balanced budgets and surpluses; when you
have growth.
But if I were in office now, I would have done what the President has done. You have to first
put the brakes on a contracting economy. And then you have to somehow hold it together
until growth resumes. When growth resumes, you have to have interest rates higher than
zero.
So you should actually -- now, if they get too high, you’ll be alarmed. But you should be
encouraged that interest rates are beginning to creep up again. It’s the sign of a healthy
economy, and the idea that there would be competition for money.
I do believe that we’ll have to take aggressive and disciplined action to eliminate the
structural deficit again. And I think it was a mistake to go back to structural deficits. I think
if America were out of debt on a normal basis, and we didn’t have to borrow money from our
major trading partners, we would have more economic freedom and economic security. So I
want to see what comes out of this, but I expect to support some very vigorous actions to
eliminate the deficit and get us back to balance.
Yes, one more. I’ve got to get out of here. Go ahead.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. Beyond this pending tax deal, there are enormous
issues of importance that are unfinished, from education to energy, the deficit. And this is still
a very dividing country. Do you think the American people want a President to compromise
with the opposing party? And is that a message that you think Democrats are going to have
to accept?
Former President Clinton: Yes, but I also believe that it’s a message Republicans are going
to have to accept. Keep in mind that many of the -- the really interesting thing was -- is that
a lot of the hardcore conservatives think the Republicans gave too much. Read Charles
Krauthammer’s column in the Post today. He’s a brilliant man, and he pointed out that they
got the divisive tax cuts, but most of them were targeted to middle-class working people -that's what the payroll tax cut is -- that the unemployment benefits were extended, which
some of them did not want to do, and that the American people, by two to one, support them
both.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
So there are some conservatives who don't believe in the economic theory I just advanced to
you; who believe that the President and Democrats got more out of this than the Republicans
did. So I think that's healthy, too, because everybody has got to give a little.
Yes, I think the one thing that always happens when you have divided government is that
people no longer see principled compromise as weakness. This system was set up to promote
principled compromise. It is an ethical thing to do. In a democracy where no one is a
dictator, we would all be at each other’s throats all the time, and we would be in a state of
constant paralysis if once power is divided, there is no compromise.
Question: What’s the political fight worth having? What would you tell Democrats the
political fight worth having is right now?
Former President Clinton: Well, I think it’s worth fighting against the repeal of the health
care law. I would be in favor -- and I can give you four or five things off the top of my head I
think should be done to improve it.
I think it’s worth a ferocious fight to avoid repeal of the student loan reform, which I believe is
the best chance we’ve got to take America back to number one from number nine in the
percent of adults in the world with four-year college degrees.
I think it’s worth fighting against repeal of the financial reform and the assurance it gives us
that we won’t have another meltdown, and if we do, there won’t be another bailout.
I think there are a lot of fights worth having, and I presume the Republicans want to fight
those, too, since they ran on that. And they’ll be able to have these differences. But this
holds the promise that after the fights are over, we’ll be able to find principled compromises
on those areas, as well. And to me that's worth doing.
But first, the economy first. We can’t go back into a recession. We have to keep crawling out
of this mess we’re in. And this is a good first step, both on the substantive merits and on the
psychological relief it gives to the American people in general, and the small business people
and community bankers and others who can start doing things that will help get better in
particular.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12
</doc>
<doc id="file32329915" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Birth_Certificate_Release.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Birth%20Certificate%20Release.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Release of Official Certification of Birth

Delivered 27 April 2011, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Now, let me just comment, first of all, on the fact that I can't get the networks to break in on
all kinds of other discussions -- I was just back there listening to Chuck -- he was saying, it’s
amazing that he’s not going to be talking about national security. I would not have the
networks breaking in if I was talking about that, Chuck, and you know it.
As many of you have been briefed, we provided additional information today about the site of
my birth. Now, this issue has been going on for two, two and a half years now. I think it
started during the campaign. And I have to say that over the last two and a half years I have
watched with bemusement, I've been puzzled at the degree to which this thing just kept on
going. We've had every official in Hawaii, Democrat and Republican, every news outlet that
has investigated this, confirm that, yes, in fact, I was born in Hawaii, August 4, 1961, in
Kapiolani Hospital.
We've posted the certification that is given by the state of Hawaii on the Internet for
everybody to see. People have provided affidavits that they, in fact, have seen this birth
certificate. And yet this thing just keeps on going.
Now, normally I would not comment on something like this, because obviously there’s a lot of
stuff swirling in the press on at any given day and I've got other things to do. But two weeks
ago, when the Republican House had put forward a budget that will have huge consequences
potentially to the country, and when I gave a speech about my budget and how I felt that we
needed to invest in education and infrastructure and making sure that we had a strong safety

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
net for our seniors even as we were closing the deficit, during that entire week the dominant
news story wasn’t about these huge, monumental choices that we're going to have to make as
a nation. It was about my birth certificate. And that was true on most of the news outlets that
were represented here.
And so I just want to make a larger point here. We've got some enormous challenges out
there. There are a lot of folks out there who are still looking for work. Everybody is still
suffering under high gas prices. We're going to have to make a series of very difficult
decisions about how we invest in our future but also get a hold of our deficit and our debt -how do we do that in a balanced way.
And this is going to generate huge and serious debates, important debates. And there are
going to be some fierce disagreements -- and that’s good. That’s how democracy is supposed
to work. And I am confident that the American people and America’s political leaders can
come together in a bipartisan way and solve these problems. We always have.
But we’re not going to be able to do it if we are distracted. We’re not going to be able to do it
if we spend time vilifying each other. We’re not going to be able to do it if we just make stuff
up and pretend that facts are not facts. We’re not going to be able to solve our problems if we
get distracted by sideshows and carnival barkers.
We live in a serious time right now and we have the potential to deal with the issues that we
confront in a way that will make our kids and our grandkids and our great grandkids proud.
And I have every confidence that America in the 21st century is going to be able to come out
on top just like we always have. But we’re going to have to get serious to do it.
I know that there’s going to be a segment of people for which, no matter what we put out,
this issue will not be put to rest. But I’m speaking to the vast majority of the American
people, as well as to the press. We do not have time for this kind of silliness. We’ve got better
stuff to do. I’ve got better stuff to do. We’ve got big problems to solve. And I’m confident we
can solve them, but we’re going to have to focus on them -- not on this.
Thanks very much, everybody.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329930" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Booker_T_Washington.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Booker%20T%20Washington.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Speech at Booker T. Washington High School

Delivered 16 May 2011, Memphis, TN

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, Memphis! Congratulations to the class of 2011!
Now, I will admit being President is a great job. I have a very nice plane. I have a theme
song. But what I enjoy most is having a chance to come to a school like Booker T. Washington
High School and share this day with its graduates. So I could not be more pleased to be here.
We've got some wonderful guests who are here as well, and I just want to make mention of
them very quickly. First of all, the Governor of Tennessee, Bill Haslam, is here. Please give
him a big round of applause. Three outstanding members of the Tennessee congressional
delegation, all of whom care deeply about education -- Senator Bob Corker, Senator Lamar
Alexander, and Congressman Steve Cohen is here. You've got one of Memphis's own, former
Congressman Harold Ford, Jr. is in the house. And the Mayor of Memphis, A.C. Wharton is
here. Please give him a big round of applause.
I am so proud of each and every one of you.
STUDENT: Thank you!
THE PRESIDENT: You're welcome. You made it -- and not just through high school. You made
it past Principal Kiner. I've spent a little bit of time with her now, and you can tell she is not
messing around. I've only been in Memphis a couple of hours, but I'm pretty sure that if she
told me to do something I'd do it.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Then I had the chance to meet her mom and her daughter, Amber, a little while back, and we
took a picture. It turns out Amber actually goes to another high school. She was worried that
the boys would be afraid to talk to her if her mom was lurking in the hallways -- which is why
my next job will be principal at Sasha and Malia's high school. And then I'll be president of
their college.
Let me also say to Alexis and Vashti -- I heard that you were a little nervous about speaking
today, but now I'm a little nervous speaking after you, because you both did terrific jobs.
We've had some great performances by Shalonda and Tecia and Paula, and the jazz band.
Give them a big round of applause.
Last but not least, I want to recognize all the people who helped you to reach this milestone:
the parents, the grandparents, the aunts, the uncles, the sisters, the brothers, the friends, the
neighbors -- who have loved you and stood behind you every step of the way.
Congratulations, family.
And I want to acknowledge the devoted teachers and administrators at Booker T. Washington,
who believed in you -- who kept the heat on you, and have never treated teaching as a job,
but rather as a calling.
Every commencement is a day of celebration. I was just telling somebody backstage, I just
love commencements. I get all choked up at commencements. So I can tell you already right
now, I will cry at my children's commencement. I cry at other people's commencements. But
this one is especially hopeful. This one is especially hopeful because some people say that
schools like BTW just aren't supposed to succeed in America. You'll hear them say, "The
streets are too rough in those neighborhoods." "The schools are too broken." "The kids don't
stand a chance."
We are here today because every single one of you stood tall and said, "Yes, we can." Yes, we
can learn. Yes, we can succeed. You decided you would not be defined by where you come
from but by where you want to go, by what you want to achieve, by the dreams you hope to
fulfill.
Just a couple of years ago, this was a school where only about half the students made it to
graduation. For a long time, just a handful headed to college each year. But at Booker T.
Washington, you changed all that.
You created special academies for ninth graders to start students off on the right track. You
made it possible for kids to take AP classes and earn college credits. You even had a team
take part in robotics competition so students can learn with their hands by building and
creating.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And you didn't just create a new curriculum, you created a new culture -- a culture that prizes
hard work and discipline; a culture that shows every student here that they matter and that
their teachers believe in them. As Principal Kiner says, the kids have to know that you care,
before they care what you know.
And because you created this culture of caring and learning, today we're standing with a very
different Booker T. Washington High School. Today, this is a place where more than four out
of five students are earning a diploma; a place where 70 percent of the graduates will
continue their education; where many will be the very first in their families to go to college.
Today, Booker T. Washington is a place that has proven why we can't accept excuses -- any
excuses -- when it comes to education. In the United States of America, we should never
accept anything less than the best that our children have to offer.
As your teacher Steve McKinney -- where's Steve at? There he is. AKA Big Mac. And I see why
they call you Big Mac. As Mr. McKinney said in the local paper, "We need everyone to broaden
their ideas about what is possible. We need parents, politicians, and the media to see how
success is possible, how success is happening every day."
So that's why I came here today. Because if success can happen here at Booker T.
Washington, it can happen anywhere in Memphis. And if it can happen in Memphis, it can
happen anywhere in Tennessee. And it can happen anywhere in Tennessee, it can happen all
across America.
So ever since I became President, my administration has been working hard to make sure
that we build on the progress that's taking place in schools like this. We've got to encourage
the kind of change that's led not by politicians, not by Washington, D.C., but by teachers and
principals and parents, and entire communities; by ordinary people standing up and
demanding a better future for their children.
We have more work to do so that every child can fulfill his or her God-given potential. And
here in Tennessee we've been seeing great progress. Tennessee has been a leader, one of the
first winners of the nationwide "Race to the Top" that we've launched to reward the kind of
results you're getting here at Booker T. Washington.
And understand, this isn't just an issue for me. I'm standing here as President because of the
education that I received. As Chris said, my father left my family when I was two years old.
And I was raised by a single mom, and sometimes she struggled to provide for me and my
sister. But my mother, my grandparents, they pushed me to excel. They refused to let me
make excuses. And they kept pushing me, especially on those rare occasions where I'd slack
off or get into trouble. They weren't that rare, actually. I'm sure nobody here has done
anything like that.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I'm so blessed that they kept pushing; I'm so lucky that my teachers kept pushing -- because
education made all the difference in my life. The same is true for Michelle. Education made
such a difference in her life. Michelle's dad was a city worker, had multiple sclerosis, had to
wake up every day and it took him a couple hours just to get ready for work. But he went to
work every day. Her mom was a secretary, went to work every day, and kept on pushing her
just like my folks pushed me.
That's what's made a difference in our lives. And it's going to make an even greater difference
in your lives -- not just for your own success but for the success of the United States of
America. Because we live in a new world now. Used to be that you didn't have to have an
education. If you were willing to work hard, you could go to a factory somewhere and get a
job. Those times are passed. Believe it or not, when you go out there looking for a job, you're
not just competing against people in Nashville or Atlanta. You're competing against young
people in Beijing and Mumbai. That's some tough competition. Those kids are hungry. They're
working hard. And you'll need to be prepared for it.
And as a country, we need all of our young people to be ready. We can't just have some
young people successful. We've got to have every young person contributing; earning those
high school diplomas and then earning those college diplomas, or getting certified in a trade
or profession. We can't succeed without it.
Through education, you can also better yourselves in other ways. You learn how to learn -how to think critically and find solutions to unexpected challenges. I remember we used to ask
our teachers, "Why am I going to need algebra?" Well, you may not have to solve for x to get
a good job or to be a good parent. But you will need to think through tough problems. You'll
need to think on your feet. You'll need to know how to gather facts and evaluate information.
So, math teachers, you can tell your students that the President says they need algebra.
Education also teaches you the value of discipline -- that the greatest rewards come not from
instant gratification but from sustained effort and from hard work. This is a lesson that's
especially true today, in a culture that prizes flash over substance, that tells us that the goal
in life is to be entertained, that says you can be famous just for being famous. You get on a
reality show -- don't know what you've done -- suddenly you're famous. But that's not going
to lead to lasting, sustained achievement.
And finally, with the right education, both at home and at school, you can learn how to be a
better human being. For when you read a great story or you learn about an important
moment in history, it helps you imagine what it would be like to walk in somebody else's
shoes, to know their struggles. The success of our economy will depend on your skills, but the
success of our community will depend on your ability to follow the Golden Rule -- to treat
others as you would like to be treated.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We've seen how important this is even in the past few weeks, as communities here in
Memphis and all across the South have come together to deal with floodwaters, and to help
each other in the aftermath of terrible tornadoes.
All of these qualities -- empathy, discipline, the capacity to solve problems, the capacity to
think critically -- these skills don't just change how the world sees us. They change how we
see ourselves. They allow each of us to seek out new horizons and new opportunities with
confidence -- with the knowledge that we're ready; that we can face obstacles and challenges
and unexpected setbacks. That's the power of your education. That's the power of the diploma
that you receive today.
And this is something that Booker T. Washington himself understood. Think about it. He
entered this world a slave on a Southern plantation. But he would leave this world as the
leader of a growing civil rights movement and the president of the world-famous Tuskegee
Institute.
Booker T. Washington believed that change and equality would be won in the classroom. So
he convinced folks to help him buy farmland. Once he had the land, he needed a school. So
he assigned his first students to actually build the chairs and the desks and even a couple of
the classrooms. You thought your teachers were tough.
Booker T. Washington ran a tight ship. He'd ride the train to Tuskegee and scare some of the
new students. This is before YouTube and TMZ, so the kids didn't recognize him. He'd walk up
to them and say, "Oh, you're heading to Tuskegee. I heard the work there is hard. I heard
they give the students too much to do. I hear the food is terrible. You probably won't last
three months." But the students would reply they weren't afraid of hard work. They were
going to complete their studies no matter what Booker T. Washington threw at them. And in
that way, he prepared them -- because life will throw some things at you.
The truth is, not a single one of the graduates here today has had it easy. Not a single one of
you had anything handed to you on a silver platter. You had to work for it. You had to earn it.
Most of all, you had to believe in yourselves.
I think of Chris's stories, and what he's faced in his life: Lost his father to violence at the age
of four. Had a childhood illness that could have been debilitating. But somehow he knew in his
heart that he could take a different path.
I think of all the graduates here who had to leave their homes when their apartments were
torn down, but who took two buses each morning to come back to Booker T. Washington.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I think of Eron Jackon. Where is Eron? Eron has known a lot of setbacks in her young life.
There was a period when she lashed out and she got into trouble and she made mistakes. And
when she first came to Booker T. Washington, she struggled. Is that right? There are plenty of
people out there who would have counted Eron out; a lot of people who would have thought of
her as another statistic. But that's not how the teachers here at Booker T. Washington saw
her. And that's not how Eron came to see herself. So she kept coming back to school, and she
didn't give up and she didn't quit. And in time, she became a great student.
And she remembered what Principal Kiner told her: "You can't let the past get you down. You
have to let it motivate you." And so now here Eron is, graduating. She's going to keep
studying to get her barber's certificate so she can cut hair and save for college. She's working
toward her dream to becoming a lawyer. She's got a bright future.
Everybody here has got a unique story like that to tell. Each of you knows what it took for you
to get here. But in reaching this milestone, there is a common lesson shared by every
graduate in this hall. And Chris said it himself in a recent interview: "It's not where you are or
what you are. It's who you are."
Yes, you're from South Memphis. Yes, you've always been underdogs. Nobody has handed
you a thing. But that also means that whatever you accomplish in your life, you will have
earned it. Whatever rewards and joys you reap, you'll appreciate them that much more
because they will have come through your own sweat and tears, products of your own effort
and your own talents. You've shown more grit and determination in your childhoods than a lot
of adults ever will. That's who you are.
So, class of 2011, the hard road does not end here. Your journey has just begun. Your
diploma is not a free pass. It won't protect you against every setback or challenge or mistake.
You'll make some, I promise. You're going to have to keep working hard. You're going to have
to keep pushing yourselves. And you'll find yourselves sometime in situations where folks
have had an easier time, they're a little bit ahead of you, and you're going to have to work
harder than they are. And you may be frustrated by that.
But if you do push yourselves, if you build on what you've already accomplished here, then I
couldn't be more confident about your futures. I'm hopeful and I'm excited about what all of
you can achieve. And I know that armed with the skills and experience and the love that
you've gained at Booker T. Washington High School, you're ready to make your mark on the
world.
So thank you. Thanks for inspiring me. God bless you. God bless the United States.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329816" filename="Barack_Obama_-_BP_Oil_Spill_Presser.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20BP%20Oil%20Spill%20Presser.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Remarks and Press Conference on the Gulf Oil Spill Disaster
delivered 27 May 2010, The White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. Before I take your questions, I want to update the American people on the
status of the BP oil spill -- a catastrophe that is causing tremendous hardship in the Gulf Coast, damaging a
precious ecosystem, and one that led to the death of 11 workers who lost their lives in the initial explosion.
Yesterday, the federal government gave BP approval to move forward with a procedure known as a “top kill”
to try to stop the leak. This involves plugging the well with densely packed mud to prevent any more oil from
escaping. And given the complexity of this procedure and the depth of the leak, this procedure offers no
guarantee of success. But we’re exploring any reasonable strategies to try and save the Gulf from a spill
that may otherwise last until the relief wells are finished -- and that's a process that could take months.
The American people should know that from the moment this disaster began, the federal government has
been in charge of the response effort. As far as I’m concerned, BP is responsible for this horrific disaster,
and we will hold them fully accountable on behalf of the United States as well as the people and
communities victimized by this tragedy. We will demand that they pay every dime they owe for the damage
they’ve done and the painful losses that they’ve caused. And we will continue to take full advantage of the
unique technology and expertise they have to help stop this leak.
But make no mistake: BP is operating at our direction. Every key decision and action they take must be
approved by us in advance. I’ve designated Admiral Thad Allen -- who has nearly four decades of
experience responding to such disasters -- as the National Incident Commander, and if he orders BP to do
something to respond to this disaster, they are legally bound to do it. So, for example, when they said they
would drill one relief well to stem this leak we demanded a backup and ordered them to drill two. And they
are in the process of drilling two.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
As we devise strategies to try and stop this leak, we’re also relying on the brightest minds and most
advanced technology in the world. We’re relying on a team of scientists and engineers from our own
national laboratories and from many other nations -- a team led by our Energy Secretary and Nobel Prizewinning physicist, Stephen Chu. And we’re relying on experts who’ve actually dealt with oil spills from
across the globe, though none this challenging.
The federal government is also directing the effort to contain and clean up the damage from the spill -which is now the largest effort of its kind in U.S. history. In this case, the federal, state, and local
governments have the resources and expertise to play an even more direct role in the response effort. And I
will be discussing this further when I make my second trip to Louisiana tomorrow. But so far we have about
20,000 people in the region who are working around the clock to contain and clean up this oil. We have
activated about 1,400 members of the National Guard in four states. We have the Coast Guard on site. We
have more than 1,300 vessels assisting in the containment and cleanup efforts. We’ve deployed over 3
million feet of total boom to stop the oil from coming on shore -- and today more than 100,000 feet of boom
is being surged to Louisiana parishes that are facing the greatest risk from the oil.
So we’ll continue to do whatever is necessary to protect and restore the Gulf Coast. For example, Admiral
Allen just announced that we’re moving forward with a section of Governor Jindal’s barrier island proposal
that could help stop oil from coming ashore. It will be built in an area that is most at risk and where the work
can be most quickly completed.
We’re also doing whatever it takes to help the men and women whose livelihoods have been disrupted and
even destroyed by this spill -- everyone from fishermen to restaurant and hotel owners. So far the Small
Business Administration has approved loans and allowed many small businesses to defer existing loan
payments. At our insistence, BP is paying economic injury claims, and we’ll make sure that when all is said
and done, the victims of this disaster will get the relief that they are owed. We’re not going to abandon our
fellow citizens. We’ll help them recover and we will help them rebuild.
And in the meantime, I should also say that Americans can help by continuing to visit the communities and
beaches of the Gulf Coast. I was talking to the governors just a couple of days ago, and they wanted me to
remind everybody that except for three beaches in Louisiana, all of the Gulf’s beaches are open. They are
safe and they are clean.
As we continue our response effort, we’re also moving quickly on steps to ensure that a catastrophe like this
never happens again. I’ve said before that producing oil here in America is an essential part of our overall
energy strategy. But all drilling must be safe.
In recent months, I’ve spoken about the dangers of too much -- I’ve heard people speaking about the
dangers of too much government regulation. And I think we can all acknowledge there have been times in
history when the government has overreached. But in this instance, the oil industry’s cozy and sometimes
corrupt relationship with government regulators meant little or no regulation at all.
When Secretary Salazar took office, he found a Minerals and Management Service that had been plagued
by corruption for years -- this was the agency charged with not only providing permits, but also enforcing
laws governing oil drilling.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And the corruption was underscored by a recent Inspector General’s report that covered activity which
occurred prior to 2007 -- a report that can only be described as appalling. And Secretary Salazar
immediately took steps to clean up that corruption. But this oil spill has made clear that more reforms are
needed.
For years, there has been a scandalously close relationship between oil companies and the agency that
regulates them. That’s why we’ve decided to separate the people who permit the drilling from those who
regulate and ensure the safety of the drilling.
I also announced that no new permits for drilling new wells will go forward until a 30-day safety and
environmental review was conducted. That review is now complete. Its initial recommendations include
aggressive new operating standards and requirements for offshore energy companies, which we will put in
place.
Additionally, after reading the report’s recommendations with Secretary Salazar and other members of my
Administration, we’re going to be ordering the following actions: First, we will suspend the planned
exploration of two locations off the coast of Alaska. Second, we will cancel the pending lease sale in the
Gulf of Mexico and the proposed lease sale off the coast of Virginia. Third, we will continue the existing
moratorium and suspend the issuance of new permits to drill new deepwater wells for six months. And four,
we will suspend action on 33 deepwater exploratory wells currently being drilled in the Gulf of Mexico.
What’s also been made clear from this disaster is that for years the oil and gas industry has leveraged such
power that they have effectively been allowed to regulate themselves. One example: Under current law, the
Interior Department has only 30 days to review an exploration plan submitted by an oil company. That
leaves no time for the appropriate environmental review. They result is, they are continually waived. And this
is just one example of a law that was tailored by the industry to serve their needs instead of the public’s. So
Congress needs to address these issues as soon as possible, and my Administration will work with them to
do so.
Still, preventing such a catastrophe in the future will require further study and deeper reform. That’s why last
Friday, I also signed an executive order establishing the National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling. While there are a number of ongoing investigations, including an
independent review by the National Academy of Engineering, the purpose of this commission is to consider
both the root causes of the disaster and offer options on what safety and environmental precautions are
necessary.
If the laws on our books are inadequate to prevent such a spill, or if we did not enforce those laws, then I
want to know. I want to know what worked and what didn’t work in our response to the disaster, and where
oversight of the oil and gas industry broke down.
Let me make one final point. More than anything else, this economic and environmental tragedy -- and it’s a
tragedy -- underscores the urgent need for this nation to develop clean, renewable sources of energy. Doing
so will not only reduce threats to our environment, it will create a new, homegrown, American industry that
can lead to countless new businesses and new jobs.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We’ve talked about doing this for decades, and we’ve made significant strides over the last year when it
comes to investing in renewable energy and energy efficiency. The House of Representatives has already
passed a bill that would finally jumpstart a permanent transition to a clean energy economy, and there is
currently a plan in the Senate -- a plan that was developed with ideas from Democrats and Republicans -that would achieve the same goal.
If nothing else, this disaster should serve as a wake-up call that it’s time to move forward on this legislation.
It’s time to accelerate the competition with countries like China, who have already realized the future lies in
renewable energy. And it’s time to seize that future ourselves. So I call on Democrats and Republicans in
Congress, working with my Administration, to answer this challenge once and for all.
I'll close by saying this: This oil spill is an unprecedented disaster. The fact that the source of the leak is a
mile under the surface, where no human being can go, has made it enormously difficult to stop. But we are
relying on every resource and every idea, every expert and every bit of technology, to work to stop it. We
will take ideas from anywhere, but we are going to stop it.
And I know that doesn’t lessen the enormous sense of anger and frustration felt by people on the Gulf and
so many Americans. Every day I see this leak continue I am angry and frustrated as well. I realize that this
entire response effort will continue to be filtered through the typical prism of politics, but that’s not what I
care about right now. What I care about right now is the containment of this disaster and the health and
safety and livelihoods of our neighbors in the Gulf Coast. And for as long as it takes, I intend to use the full
force of the federal government to protect our fellow citizens and the place where they live. I can assure you
of that.

All right. I’m going to take some questions. I’m going to start with Jennifer Loven.

Question: Thank you, Mr. President. This is on, right?
President Obama: Yes.
Question: You just said that the federal government is in charge, and officials in your Administration have
said this repeatedly. Yet how do you explain that we’re more than five weeks into this crisis and that BP is
not always doing as you’re asking, for example with the type of dispersant that’s being used? And if I might
add one more; to the many people in the Gulf who, as you said, are angry and frustrated and feel somewhat
abandoned, what do you say about whether your personal involvement, your personal engagement, has
been as much as it should be either privately or publicly?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, I’ll take the second question first, if you don’t mind. The day that the rig collapsed
and fell to the bottom of the ocean, I had my team in the Oval Office that first day. Those who think that we
were either slow on our response or lacked urgency don’t know the facts. This has been our highest priority
since this crisis occurred.
Personally, I’m briefed every day and have probably had more meetings on this issue than just about any
issue since we did our Afghan review. And we understood from day one the potential enormity of this crisis
and acted accordingly. So when it comes to the moment this crisis occurred, moving forward, this entire
White House and this entire federal government has been singularly focused on how do we stop the leak,
and how do we prevent and mitigate the damage to our coastlines.
The challenge we have is that we have not seen a leak like this before, and so people are going to be
frustrated until it stops. And I understand that. And if you’re living on the coast and you see this sludge
coming at you, you are going to be continually upset, and from your perspective, the response is going to be
continually inadequate until it actually stops. And that's entirely appropriate and understandable.
But from Thad Allen, our National Incident Coordinator, through the most junior member of the Coast Guard,
or the under-under-under secretary of NOAA, or any of the agencies under my charge, they understand this
is the single most important thing that we have to get right.
Now, with respect to the relationship between our government and BP, the United States government has
always been in charge of making sure that the response is appropriate. BP, under the Oil Pollution Act of
1990, is considered the responsible party, which basically means they’ve got to pay for everything that's
done to both stop the leak and mitigate the damage. They do so under our supervision, and any major
decision that they make has to be done under the approval of Thad Allen, the National Incident Coordinator.
So this notion that somehow the federal government is sitting on the sidelines and for the three or four or
five weeks we’ve just been letting BP make a whole bunch of decisions is simply not true.
What is true is that when it comes to stopping the leak down below, the federal government does not
possess superior technology to BP. This is something, by the way -- going back to my involvement -- two or
three days after this happened, we had a meeting down in the Situation Room in which I specifically asked
Bob Gates and Mike Mullen what assets do we have that could potentially help that BP or other oil
companies around the world do not have. We do not have superior technology when it comes to dealing
with this particular crisis.
Now, one of the legitimate questions that I think needs to be asked is should the federal government have
such capacity. And that's part of what the role of the commission is going to be, is to take a look and say, do
we make sure that a consortium of oil companies pay for specifically technology to deal with this kind of
incident when it happens. Should that response team that’s effective be under the direct charge of the
United States government or a private entity? But for now, BP has the best technology, along with the other
oil companies, when it comes to actually capping the well down there.
Now, when it comes to what’s happening on the surface, we’ve been much more involved in the in-situ
burns, in the skimming. Those have been happening more or less under our direction, and we feel
comfortable about many of the steps that have been taken.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
There have been areas where there have been disagreements, and I'll give you two examples. Initially on
this top kill, there were questions in terms of how effective it could be, but also what were the risks involved,
because we’re operating at such a pressurized level, a mile underwater and in such frigid temperatures, that
the reactions of various compounds and various approaches had to be calibrated very carefully. That’s
when I sent Steven Chu down, the Secretary of Energy, and he brought together a team, basically a brain
trust, of some of the smartest folks we have at the National Labs and in academia to essentially serve as a
oversight board with BP engineers and scientists in making calculations about how much mud could you
pour down, how fast, without risking potentially the whole thing blowing.
So in that situation you’ve got the federal government directly overseeing what BP is doing, and Thad Allen
is giving authorization when finally we feel comfortable that the risks of attempting a top kill, for example, are
sufficiently reduced that it needs to be tried. I already mentioned a second example, which is they wanted to
drill one relief well. The experience has been that when you drill one relief well, potentially you keep on
missing the mark. And so it’s important to have two to maximize the speed and effectiveness of a relief well.
And right now Thad Allen is down there, because I think he -- it’s his view that some of the allocation of
boom or other efforts to protect shorelines hasn’t been as nimble as it needs to be. And he said so publicly.
And so he will be making sure that, in fact, the resources to protect the shorelines are there immediately.
But here’s the broad point: There has never been a point during this crisis in which this Administration, up
and down up the line, in all these agencies, hasn’t, number one, understood this was my top priority -getting this stopped and then mitigating the damage; and number two, understanding that if BP wasn’t doing
what our best options were, we were fully empowered and instruct them, to tell them to do something
different.
And so if you take a look at what’s transpired over the last four to five weeks, there may be areas where
there have been disagreements, for example, on dispersants, and these are complicated issues. But overall,
the decisions that have been made have been reflective of the best science that we’ve got, the best expert
opinion that we have, and have been weighing various risks and various options to allocate our resources in
such a way that we can get this fixed as quickly as possible.
Jake Tapper.

Question: Thanks, Mr. President. You say that everything that could be done is being
done, but there are those in the region and those industry experts who say that’s not true. Governor Jindal
obviously had this proposal for a barrier. They say that if that had been approved when they first asked for it,
they would have 10 miles up already. There are fishermen down there who want to work, who want to help,
haven’t been trained, haven’t been told to go do so. There are industry experts who say that they’re
surprised that tankers haven’t been sent out there to vacuum, as was done in ’93 outside Saudi Arabia. And
then, of course, there’s the fact that there are 17 countries that have offered to help and it’s only been
accepted from two countries, Norway and Mexico. How can you say that everything that can be done is
being done with all these experts and all these officials saying that’s not true?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, let me distinguish between -- if the question is, Jake, are we doing everything
perfectly out there, then the answer is absolutely not. We can always do better. If the question is, are we,
each time there is an idea, evaluating it and making a decision, is this the best option that we have right
now, based on how quickly we can stop this leak and how much damage can we mitigate -- then the answer
is yes.
So let’s take the example of Governor Jindal’s barrier islands idea. When I met with him when I was down
there two weeks ago, I said I will make sure that our team immediately reviews this idea, that the Army
Corps of Engineers is looking at the feasibility of it, and if they think -- if they tell me that this is the best
approach to dealing with this problem, then we’re going to move quickly to execute it. If they have a
disagreement with Governor Jindal’s experts as to whether this would be effective or not, whether it was
going to be cost-effective, given the other things that need to be done, then we’ll sit down and try to figure
that out. And that essentially is what happened, which is why today you saw an announcement where, from
the Army Corps’ perspective, there were some areas where this might work, but there are some areas
where it would be counter-productive and not a good use of resources.
So the point is, on each of these points that you just mentioned, the job of our response team is to say,
okay, if 17 countries have offered equipment and help, let’s evaluate what they’ve offered: How fast can it
get here? Is it actually going to be redundant, or will it actually add to the overall effort -- because in some
cases, more may not actually be better. And decisions have been made based on the best information
available that says here’s what we need right now. It may be that a week from now or two weeks from now
or a month from now the offers from some of those countries might be more effectively utilized.
Now, it’s going to be entirely possible in a operation this large that mistakes are made, judgments prove to
be wrong; that people say in retrospect, you know, if we could have done that or we did that, this might have
turned out differently -- although in a lot of cases it may be speculation. But the point that I was addressing
from Jennifer was, does this Administration maintain a constant sense of urgency about this, and are we
examining every recommendation, every idea that's out there, and making our best judgment as to whether
these are the right steps to take, based on the best experts that we know of. And on that answer, the
answer is yes -- or on that question, the answer is yes.
Chuck Todd.

Question: I just want to follow up on the question as it has to do with the relationship
between the government and BP. It seems that you’ve made the case on the technical issues. But onshore,
Admiral Allen admitted the other day in a White House briefing that they needed to be pushed harder.
Senator Mary Landrieu this morning said it’s not clear who’s in charge, that the government should be in
charge. Why not ask BP to simply step aside on the onshore stuff, make it an entirely government thing?
Obviously BP pays for it, but why not ask them to just completely step aside on that front?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
And then also, can you respond to all the Katrina comparisons that people are making about this with
yourself?
President Obama: Well, I’ll take your second question first. I’ll leave it to you guys to make those
comparisons, and make judgments on it, because what I’m spending my time thinking about is how do we
solve the problem. And when the problem is solved and people look back and do an assessment of all the
various decisions that were made, I think people can make a historical judgment. And I’m confident that
people are going to look back and say that this Administration was on top of what was an unprecedented
crisis.
In terms of shoreline protection, the way this thing has been set up under the oil spill act of 1990 -- Oil
Pollution Act -- is that BP has contracts with a whole bunch of contractors on file in the event that there is an
oil spill, and as soon as the Deep Horizon well went down, then their job is to activate those and start paying
them. So a big chunk of the 20,000 who are already down there are being paid by BP.
The Coast Guard’s job is to approve and authorize whatever BP is doing. Now, what Admiral Allen said
today, and the reason he’s down there today, is that if BP’s contractors are not moving as nimbly and as
effectively as they need to be, then it is already the power of the federal government to redirect those
resources. I guess the point being that the Coast Guard and our military are potentially already in charge as
long as we’ve got good information and we are making the right decisions.
And if there are mistakes that are being made right now, we’ve got the power to correct those decisions. We
don’t have to necessarily reconfigure the setup down there. What we do have to make sure of is, is that on
each and every one of the decisions that are being made about what beaches to protect, what’s going to
happen with these marshes, if we build a barrier island, how is this going to have an impact on the ecology
of the area over the long term -- in each of those decisions, we’ve got to get it right.
Question: You understand the credibility of BP seems to be so bad -- that there’s almost no trust that
they’re getting -President Obama: I understand. And part of the purpose of this press conference is to explain to the folks
down in the Gulf that ultimately it is our folks down there who are responsible. If they’re not satisfied with
something that’s happening, then they need to let us know and we will immediately question BP and ask
them why isn’t X, Y, Z happening. And those skimmers, those boats, that boom, the people who are out
there collecting some of the oil that’s already hit shore, they can be moved and redirected at any point.
And so, understandably, people are frustrated, because, look, this is a big mess coming to shore and even if
we’ve got a perfect organizational structure, spots are going to be missed, oil is going to go to places that
maybe somebody thinks it could have been prevented from going. There is going to be damage that is
heartbreaking to see. People’s livelihoods are going to be affected in painful ways. The best thing for us to
do is to make sure that every decision about how we’re allocating the resources that we’ve got is being
made based on the best expert advice that’s available.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I’ll take one last stab at this, Chuck. The problem I don’t think is that BP is off running around doing
whatever it wants and nobody is minding the store. Inevitably in something this big, there are going to be
places where things fall short. But I want everybody to understand today that our teams are authorized to
direct BP in the same way that they’d be authorized to direct those same teams if they were technically
being paid by the federal government. In either circumstance, we’ve got the authority that we need. We just
got to make sure that we’re exercising it effectively.
All right, Steve Thomma.

Question: Thank you, sir. On April 21st, Admiral Allen tells us the government started
dispatching equipment rapidly to the Gulf, and you just said on day one you recognized the enormity of this
situation. Yet here we are 39, 40 days later, you’re still having to rush more equipment, more boom. There
are still areas of the coast unprotected. Why is it taking so long? And did you really act from day one for a
worst-case scenario?
President Obama: We did. Part of the problem you’ve got is -- let’s take the example of boom. The way
the plans have been developed -- and I’m not an expert on this, but this is as it’s been explained to me -pre-deploying boom would have been the right thing to do; making sure that there is boom right there in the
region at various spots where you could anticipate, if there was a spill of this size, the boom would be right
there ready to grab. Unfortunately, that wasn’t always the case. And so this goes back to something that
Jake asked earlier. When it comes to the response since the crisis happened, I am very confident that the
federal government has acted consistently with a sense of urgency.
When it comes to prior to this accident happening, I think there was a lack of anticipating what the worstcase scenarios would be. And that's a problem. And part of that problem was lodged in MMS and the way
that that agency was structured. That was the agency in charge of providing permitting and making
decisions in terms of where drilling could take place, but also in charge of enforcing the safety provisions.
And as I indicated before, the IG report, the Inspecter General’s report that came out, was scathing in terms
of the problems there.
And when Ken Salazar came in, he cleaned a lot of that up. But more needed to be done, and more needs
to be done, which is part of the reason why he separated out the permitting function from the functions that
involve enforcing the various safety regulations. But I think on a whole bunch of fronts, you had a
complacency when it came to what happens in the worst-case scenario.
I'll give you another example, because this is something that some of you have written about -- the question
of how is it that oil companies kept on getting environmental waivers in getting their permits approved. Well,
it turns out that the way the process works, first of all, there is a thorough environmental review as to
whether a certain portion of the Gulf should be leased or not. That’s a thorough-going environmental
evaluation. Then the overall lease is broken up into segments for individual leases, and again there’s an
environmental review that’s done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
But when it comes to a specific company with its exploration plan in that one particular area -- they’re going
to drill right here in this spot -- Congress mandated that only 30 days could be allocated before a yes or no
answer was given. That was by law. So MMS’s hands were tied. And as a consequence, what became the
habit, predating my Administration, was you just automatically gave the environmental waiver, because you
couldn’t complete an environmental study in 30 days.
So what you’ve got is a whole bunch of aspects to how oversight was exercised in deepwater drilling that
were very problematic. And that’s why it’s so important that this commission moves forward and examines,
from soup to nuts, why did this happen; how should this proceed in a safe, effective manner; what’s required
when it comes to worst-case scenarios to prevent something like this from happening.
I continue to believe that oil production is important, domestic oil production is important. But I also believe
we can’t do this stuff if we don’t have confidence that we can prevent crises like this from happening again.
And it’s going to take some time for the experts to make those determinations. And as I said, in the
meantime, I think it’s appropriate that we keep in place the moratorium that I’ve already issued.
Chip Reid.

Question: Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, Elizabeth Birnbaum resigned today. Did
she resign? Was she fired? Was she forced out? And if so, why? And should other heads roll as we go on
here?
Secondly, with regard to the Minerals Management Service, Secretary Salazar yesterday basically blamed
the Bush Administration for the cozy relationship there, and you seemed to suggest that when you spoke in
the Rose Garden a few weeks ago when you said, for too long, a decade or more -- most of those years, of
course, the Bush Administration -- there’s been a cozy relationship between the oil companies and the
federal agency that permits them to drill. But you knew as soon as you came in, and Secretary Salazar did,
about this cozy relationship, but you continued to give permits -- some of them under questionable
circumstances. Is it fair to blame the Bush Administration? Don't you deserve some of that?
President Obama: Well, let me just make the point that I made earlier, which is Salazar came in and
started cleaning house, but the culture had not fully changed in MMS. And absolutely I take responsibility for
that. There wasn’t sufficient urgency in terms of the pace of how those changes needed to take place.
There’s no evidence that some of the corrupt practices that had taken place earlier took place under the
current Administration’s watch. But a culture in which oil companies were able to get what they wanted
without sufficient oversight and regulation -- that was a real problem. Some of it was constraints of the law,
as I just mentioned, but we should have busted through those constraints.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, with respect to Ms. Birnbaum, I found out about her resignation today. Ken Salazar has been in
testimony throughout the day, so I don’t know the circumstances in which this occurred. I can tell you what
I’ve said to Ken Salazar, which is that we have to make sure, if we are going forward with domestic oil
production, that the federal agency charged with overseeing its safety and security is operating at the
highest level. And I want people in there who are operating at the highest level and aren’t making excuses
when things break down, but are intent on fixing them. And I have confidence that Ken Salazar can do that.
Question: Is his job safe?
President Obama: Yes.
Julianna [Goldman].

Question: Thank you, Mr. President. We’re learning today that the oil has been gushing as
much as five times the initial estimates. What does that tell you and the American people about the extent to
which BP can be trusted on any of the information that it’s providing, whether the events leading up to the
spill, any of their information?
President Obama: Well, BP’s interests are aligned with the public interest to the extent that they want to
get this well capped. It’s bad for their business. It’s bad for their bottom line. They’re going to be paying a lot
of damages, and we’ll be staying on them about that. So I think it’s fair to say that they want this thing
capped as badly as anybody does and they want to minimize the damage as much as they can.
I think it is a legitimate concern to question whether BP’s interests in being fully forthcoming about the extent
of the damage is aligned with the public interest. I mean, their interests may be to minimize the damage,
and to the extent that they have better information than anybody else, to not be fully forthcoming. So my
attitude is we have to verify whatever it is they say about the damage.
This is an area, by the way, where I do think our efforts fell short. And I’m not contradicting my prior point
that people were working as hard as they could and doing the best that they could on this front. But I do
believe that when the initial estimates came that there were -- it was 5,000 barrels spilling into the ocean per
day, that was based on satellite imagery and satellite data that would give a rough calculation. At that point,
BP already had a camera down there, but wasn’t fully forthcoming in terms of what did those pictures look
like. And when you set it up in time-lapse photography, experts could then make a more accurate
determination. The Administration pushed them to release it, but they should have pushed them sooner. I
mean, I think that it took too long for us to stand up our flow-tracking group that has now made these more
accurate ranges of calculation.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, keep in mind that that didn’t change what our response was. As I said from the start, we understood
that this could be really bad. We are hoping for the best, but preparing for the worst. And so there aren’t
steps that would have taken in terms of trying to cap the well, or skimming the surface, or the in-situ burns,
or preparing to make sure when this stuff hit shore that we could minimize the damage -- all those steps
would have been the same even if we had information that this flow was coming out faster.
And eventually, we would have gotten better information because, by law, the federal government, if it’s
going to be charging BP for the damage that it causes, is going to have to do the best possible assessment.
But there was a lag of several weeks that I think shouldn’t have happened.
Helen Thomas.

Question: Mr. President, when are you going to get out of Afghanistan? Why are we
continuing to kill and die there? What is the real excuse? And don't give us this Bushism, “if we don't go
there, they’ll all come here.”
President Obama: Well, Helen, the reason we originally went to Afghanistan was because that was the
base from which attacks were launched that killed 3,000 people -- I’m going to get to your question, I
promise. But I just want to remind people we went there because the Taliban was harboring al Qaeda,
which had launched an attack that killed 3,000 Americans.
Al Qaeda escaped capture and they set up in the border regions between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Al
Qaeda has affiliates that not only provide them safe harbor, but increasingly are willing to conduct their own
terrorist operations initially in Afghanistan and in Pakistan, but increasingly directed against Western targets
and targets of our allies as well.
So it is absolutely critical that we dismantle that network of extremists that are willing to attack us. And they
are currently -Question: -- a threat to us?
President Obama: They absolutely are a threat to us. They’re a significant threat to us. I wouldn’t be
deploying young men and women into harm’s way if I didn’t think that they were an absolute threat to us.
Now, General McChrystal’s strategy, which I think is the right one, is that we are going to clear out Taliban
strongholds; we are going to strengthen the capacity of the Afghan military; and we are going to get them
stood up in a way that allows us then to start drawing down our troops but continuing to provide support for
Afghan in its effort to create a stable government.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is a difficult process. At the same time, we’ve also got to work with Pakistan so that they are more
effective partners in dealing with the extremists that are within their borders. And it is a big, messy process.
But we are making progress in part because the young men and women under General McChrystal’s
supervision, as well as our coalition partners, are making enormous sacrifices; but also on the civilian side,
we’re starting to make progress in terms of building capacity that will allow us then to draw down with an
effective partner.
Jackie Calmes, New York Times.

Question: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to follow up on something -- exchange you had
with Chip. Leaving aside the existing permits for drilling in the Gulf, before -- weeks before BP, you had
called for expanded drilling. Do you now regret that decision? And why did you do so knowing what you
have described today about the sort of dysfunction in the MMS?
President Obama: I continue to believe what I said at that time, which was that domestic oil production is
an important part of our overall energy mix. It has to be part of an overall energy strategy. I also believe that
it is insufficient to meet the needs of our future, which is why I’ve made huge investments in clean energy,
why we continue to promote solar and wind and biodiesel and a whole range of other approaches, why
we’re putting so much emphasis on energy efficiency.
But we’re not going to be able to transition to these clean energy strategies right away. I mean, we’re still
years off and some technological breakthroughs away from being able to operate on purely a clean energy
grid. During that time, we’re going to be using oil. And to the extent that we’re using oil, it makes sense for
us to develop our oil and natural gas resources here in the United States and not simply rely on imports.
That’s important for our economy; that’s important for economic growth.
So the overall framework, which is to say domestic oil production should be part of our overall energy mix, I
think continues to be the right one. Where I was wrong was in my belief that the oil companies had their act
together when it came to worst-case scenarios.
Now, that wasn’t based on just my blind acceptance of their statements. Oil drilling has been going on in the
Gulf, including deepwater, for quite some time. And the record of accidents like this we hadn’t seen before.
But it just takes one for us to have a wake-up call and recognize that claims that fail-safe procedures were in
place, or that blowout preventers would function properly, or that valves would switch on and shut things off,
that -- whether it’s because of human error, because of the technology was faulty, because when you’re
operating at these depths you can’t anticipate exactly what happens -- those assumptions proved to be
incorrect.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so I’m absolutely convinced that we have to do a thorough-going scrub of that -- those safety
procedures and those safety records. And we have to have confidence that even if it’s just a one-in-a-million
shot, that we’ve got enough technology know-how that we can shut something like this down not in a month,
not in six weeks, but in two or three or four days. And I don’t have that confidence right now.
Question: If I could follow up -President Obama: Sure.
Question: Do you -- are you sorry now? Do you regret that your team had not done the reforms at the
Minerals Management Service that you’ve subsequently called for? And I’m also curious as to how it is that
you didn’t know about Ms. Birnbaum’s resignation/firing before -President Obama: Well, you’re assuming it was a firing. If it was a resignation, then she would have
submitted a letter to Mr. Salazar this morning, at a time when I had a whole bunch of other stuff going on.
Question: So you rule out that she was fired?
President Obama: Come on, Jackie, I don’t know. I’m telling you the -- I found out about it this morning, so
I don’t yet know the circumstances, and Ken Salazar has been in testimony on the Hill.
With respect to your first question, at MMS, Ken Salazar was in the process of making these reforms. But
the point that I’m making is, is that obviously they weren’t happening fast enough. If they had been
happening fast enough, this might have been caught. Now, it’s possible that it might now have been caught.
I mean, we could have gone through a whole new process for environmental review; you could have had a
bunch of technical folks take a look at BP’s plans, and they might have said, this is -- meets industry
standards, we haven’t had an accident like this in 15 years and we should go ahead.
That’s what this commission has to discover, is -- was this a systemic breakdown? Is this something that
could happen once in a million times? Is it something that could happen once in a thousand times, or once
every 5,000 times? What exactly are the risks involved?
Now, let me make one broader point, though, about energy. The fact that oil companies now have to go a
mile underwater and then drill another three miles below that in order to hit oil tells us something about the
direction of the oil industry. Extraction is more expensive and it is going to be inherently more risky.
And so that’s part of the reason you never heard me say, “Drill, baby, drill” -- because we can’t drill our way
out of the problem. It may be part of the mix as a bridge to a transition to new technologies and new energy
sources, but we should be pretty modest in understanding that the easily accessible oil has already been
sucked up out of the ground.
And as we are moving forward, the technology gets more complicated, the oil sources are more remote, and
that means that there’s probably going to end up being more risk. And we as a society are going to have to
make some very serious determinations in terms of what risks are we willing to accept. And that’s part of
what the commission I think is going to have to look at.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
I will tell you, though, that understanding we need to grow -- we’re going to be consuming oil for our
industries and for how people live in this country, we’re going to have to start moving on this transition. And
that’s why when I went to the Republican Caucus just this week, I said to them, let’s work together. You’ve
got Lieberman and Kerry, who previously were working with Lindsey Graham -- even though Lindsey is not
on the bill right now -- coming up with a framework that has the potential to get bipartisan support, and says,
yes, we’re going to still need oil production, but you know what, we can see what’s out there on the horizon,
and it’s a problem if we don't start changing how we operate.
Macarena Vidal. Not here? Oh, there you are.
Question: Mr. President, you announced -- or the White House announced two days ago that you were
going to send 1,200 people to -- 1,200 members of the National Guard to the border. I want to -- if you could
precise what their target is going to be, what you’re planning to achieve with that -- if you could clarify a bit
more the mission that they're going to have.
And also on Arizona, after you have criticized so much the immigration law that has been approved there,
would you support the boycott that some organizations are calling towards that state?
President Obama: I’ve indicated that I don't approve of the Arizona law. I think it’s the wrong approach. I
understand the frustrations of the people of Arizona and a lot of folks along the border that that border has
not been entirely secured in a way that is both true to our traditions as a nation of law and as a nation of
immigrants.
I’m President of the United States; I don't endorse boycotts or not endorse boycotts. That's something that
the private citizens can make a decision about. What my Administration is doing is examining very closely
this Arizona law and its implications for the civil rights and civil liberties for the people in Arizona, as well as
the concern that you start getting a patchwork of 50 different immigration laws around the country in an area
that is inherently the job of the federal government.
Now, for the federal government to do its job, everybody has got to step up. And so I’ve tried to be as clear
as I could this week, and I will repeat it to everybody who’s here: We have to have a comprehensive
approach to immigration reform. The time to get moving on this is now. And I am prepared to work with both
parties and members of Congress to get a bill that does a good job securing our borders; holds employers
accountable; makes sure that those who have come here illegally have to pay a fine, pay back taxes, learn
English, and get right by the law.
We had the opportunity to do that. We’ve done -- we’ve gotten a vote of a super majority in the Senate just
four years ago. There’s no reason why we shouldn’t be able to recreate that bipartisan spirit to get this
problem solved.
Now, with respect to the National Guardsmen and women, I have authorized up to 1,200 National
Guardspersons in a plan that was actually shaped last year. So this is not simply in response to the Arizona
law. And what we find is, is that National Guardspersons can help on intelligence; dealing with both drug
and human trafficking along the borders; they can relieve border guards so that the border guards then can
be in charge of law enforcement in those areas. So there are a lot of functions that they can carry out that
helps leverage and increase the resources available in this area.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
By the way, we didn’t just send National Guard. We’ve also got a package of $500 million in additional
resources, because, for example, if we are doing a better job dealing with trafficking along the border, we’ve
also got to make sure that we’ve got prosecutors down there who can prosecute those cases.
But the key point I want to emphasize to you is that I don’t see these issues in isolation. We’re not going to
solve the problem just solely as a consequence of sending National Guard troops down there. We’re going
to solve this problem because we have created an orderly, fair, humane immigration framework in which
people are able to immigrate to this country in a legal fashion; employers are held accountable for hiring
legally present workers.
And I think we can craft that system if everybody is willing to step up. And I told the Republican Caucus
when I met with them this week, I don’t even need you to meet me halfway; meet me a quarter of the way.
I’ll bring the majority of Democrats to a smart, sensible, comprehensive immigration reform bill. But I’m
going to have to have some help, given the rules of the Senate, where a simple majority is not enough.
Last question, Major [Garrett].

Question: Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon.
President Obama: Good afternoon.
Question: Two issues. Some in your government have said the federal government’s boot is on the neck of
BP. Are you comfortable with that imagery, sir? Is your boot on the neck of BP? And can you understand,
sir, why some in the Gulf who feel besieged by this oil spill consider that a meaningless, possibly ludicrous,
metaphor?
Secondarily, can you tell the American public, sir, what your White House did or did not offer Congressman
Sestak to not enter the Democratic senatorial primary? And how will you meet your levels of expressed
transparency and ethics to convey that answer to satisfy what appear to be bipartisan calls for greater
disclosure about that matter? Thank you.
President Obama: There will be an official response shortly on the Sestak issue, which I hope will answer
your questions.
Question: From you, sir?
President Obama: You will get it from my Administration. And it will be coming out -- when I say “shortly,” I
mean shortly. I don’t mean weeks or months. With respect to the first -Question: Can you assure the public it was ethical and legal, sir?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: I can assure the public that nothing improper took place. But, as I said, there will be a
response shortly on that issue.
With respect to the metaphor that was used, I think Ken Salazar would probably be the first one to admit
that he has been frustrated, angry, and occasionally emotional about this issue, like a lot of people have. I
mean, there are a lot of folks out there who see what’s happening and are angry at BP, are frustrated that it
hasn’t stopped. And so I’ll let Ken answer for himself. I would say that we don’t need to use language like
that; what we need is actions that make sure that BP is being held accountable. And that’s what I intend to
do, and I think that’s what Ken Salazar intends to do. But, look, we’ve gone through a difficult year and a
half. This is just one more bit of difficulty. And this is going to be hard not just right now, it’s going to be hard
for months to come. The Gulf -Question: This -President Obama: This spill. The Gulf is going to be affected in a bad way. And so my job right now is just
to make sure that everybody in the Gulf understands this is what I wake up to in the morning and this is
what I go to bed at night thinking about.
Question: The spill?
President Obama: The spill. And it’s not just me, by the way. When I woke this morning and I’m shaving
and Malia knocks on my bathroom door and she peeks in her head and she says, “Did you plug the hole
yet, Daddy?” Because I think everybody understands that when we are fouling the Earth like this, it has
concrete implications not just for this generation, but for future generations.
I grew up in Hawaii where the ocean is sacred. And when you see birds flying around with oil all over their
feathers and turtles dying, that doesn’t just speak to the immediate economic consequences of this; this
speaks to how are we caring for this incredible bounty that we have. And so sometimes when I hear folks
down in Louisiana expressing frustrations, I may not always think that they're comments are fair; on the
other hand, I probably think to myself, these are folks who grew up fishing in these wetlands and seeing this
as an integral part of who they are -- and to see that messed up in this fashion would be infuriating.
So the thing that the American people need to understand is that not a day goes by where the federal
government is not constantly thinking about how do we make sure that we minimize the damage on this, we
close this thing down, we review what happened to make sure that it does not happen again. And in that
sense, there are analogies to what’s been happening in terms of in the financial markets and some of these
other areas where big crises happen -- it forces us to do some soul searching. And I think that’s important
for all of us to do.
In the meantime, my job is to get this fixed. And in case anybody wonders -- in any of your reporting, in case
you were wondering who’s responsible, I take responsibility. It is my job to make sure that everything is
done to shut this down. That doesn’t mean it’s going to be easy. It doesn’t mean it’s going to happen right
away or the way I’d like it to happen. It doesn’t mean that we’re not going to make mistakes. But there
shouldn’t be any confusion here: The federal government is fully engaged, and I’m fully engaged.
All right. Thank you very much, everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 17
</doc>
<doc id="file32329945" filename="Barack_Obama_-_British_Parliament.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20British%20Parliament.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the British Parliament

Delivered 25 May 2011, Westminster Hall, London

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you, so much.
My Lord Chancellor, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, my lords, and members of the House of
Commons:
I have known few greater honors than the opportunity to address the Mother of Parliaments at
Westminster Hall. I am told that the last three speakers here have been the Pope, Her Majesty
the Queen, and Nelson Mandela -- which is either a very high bar or the beginning of a very
funny joke.
I come here today to reaffirm one of the oldest, one of the strongest alliances the world has
ever known. It’s long been said that the United States and the United Kingdom share a special
relationship. And since we also share an especially active press corps, that relationship is
often analyzed and overanalyzed for the slightest hint of stress or strain.
Of course, all relationships have their ups and downs. Admittedly, ours got off on the wrong
foot with a small scrape about tea and taxes. There may also have been some hurt feelings
when the White House was set on fire during the War of 1812. But fortunately, it’s been
smooth sailing ever since.
The reason for this close friendship doesn’t just have to do with our shared history, our shared
heritage; our ties of language and culture; or even the strong partnership between our
governments. Our relationship is special because of the values and beliefs that have united
our people through the ages.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Centuries ago, when kings, emperors, and warlords reigned over much of the world, it was
the English who first spelled out the rights and liberties of man in the Magna Carta. It was
here, in this very hall, where the rule of law first developed, courts were established, disputes
were settled, and citizens came to petition their leaders.
Over time, the people of this nation waged a long and sometimes bloody struggle to expand
and secure their freedom from the crown. Propelled by the ideals of the Enlightenment, they
would ultimately forge an English Bill of Rights, and invest the power to govern in an elected
parliament that’s gathered here today.
What began on this island would inspire millions throughout the continent of Europe and
across the world. But perhaps no one drew greater inspiration from these notions of freedom
than your rabble-rousing colonists on the other side of the Atlantic. As Winston Churchill said,
the -…Magna Carta, the Bill of Rights, Habeas Corpus, trial by jury, and English common law
find their most famous expression in the American Declaration of Independence.
For both of our nations, living up to the ideals enshrined in these founding documents has
sometimes been difficult, has always been a work in progress. The path has never been
perfect. But through the struggles of slaves and immigrants, women and ethnic minorities,
former colonies and persecuted religions, we have learned better than most that the longing
for freedom and human dignity is not English or American or Western -- it is universal, and it
beats in every heart. Perhaps that’s why there are few nations that stand firmer, speak
louder, and fight harder to defend democratic values around the world than the United States
and the United Kingdom.
We are the allies who landed at Omaha and Gold, who sacrificed side by side to free a
continent from the march of tyranny, and help prosperity flourish from the ruins of war. And
with the founding of NATO -- a British idea -- we joined a transatlantic alliance that has
ensured our security for over half a century.
Together with our allies, we forged a lasting peace from a cold war. When the Iron Curtain
lifted, we expanded our alliance to include the nations of Central and Eastern Europe, and
built new bridges to Russia and the former states of the Soviet Union. And when there was
strife in the Balkans, we worked together to keep the peace.
Today, after a difficult decade that began with war and ended in recession, our nations have
arrived at a pivotal moment once more. A global economy that once stood on the brink of
depression is now stable and recovering. After years of conflict, the United States has
removed 100,000 troops from Iraq, the United Kingdom has removed its forces, and our
combat mission there has ended.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
In Afghanistan, we’ve broken the Taliban’s momentum and will soon begin a transition to
Afghan lead. And nearly 10 years after 9/11, we have disrupted terrorist networks and dealt al
Qaeda a huge blow by killing its leader -- Osama bin Laden.
Together, we have met great challenges. But as we enter this new chapter in our shared
history, profound challenges stretch before us. In a world where the prosperity of all nations is
now inextricably linked, a new era of cooperation is required to ensure the growth and
stability of the global economy. As new threats spread across borders and oceans, we must
dismantle terrorist networks and stop the spread of nuclear weapons, confront climate change
and combat famine and disease. And as a revolution races through the streets of the Middle
East and North Africa, the entire world has a stake in the aspirations of a generation that
longs to determine its own destiny.
These challenges come at a time when the international order has already been reshaped for a
new century. Countries like China, India, and Brazil are growing by leaps and bounds. We
should welcome this development, for it has lifted hundreds of millions from poverty around
the globe, and created new markets and opportunities for our own nations.
And yet, as this rapid change has taken place, it’s become fashionable in some quarters to
question whether the rise of these nations will accompany the decline of American and
European influence around the world. Perhaps, the argument goes, these nations represent
the future, and the time for our leadership has passed.
That argument is wrong. The time for our leadership is now. It was the United States and the
United Kingdom and our democratic allies that shaped a world in which new nations could
emerge and individuals could thrive. And even as more nations take on the responsibilities of
global leadership, our alliance will remain indispensable to the goal of a century that is more
peaceful, more prosperous and more just.
At a time when threats and challenges require nations to work in concert with one another, we
remain the greatest catalysts for global action. In an era defined by the rapid flow of
commerce and information, it is our free market tradition, our openness, fortified by our
commitment to basic security for our citizens, that offers the best chance of prosperity that is
both strong and shared. As millions are still denied their basic human rights because of who
they are, or what they believe, or the kind of government that they live under, we are the
nations most willing to stand up for the values of tolerance and self-determination that lead to
peace and dignity.
Now, this doesn’t mean we can afford to stand still. The nature of our leadership will need to
change with the times. As I said the first time I came to London as President, for the G20
summit, the days are gone when Roosevelt and Churchill could sit in a room and solve the
world’s problems over a glass of brandy -- although I’m sure that Prime Minister Cameron
would agree that some days we could both use a stiff drink.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
In this century, our joint leadership will require building new partnerships, adapting to new
circumstances, and remaking ourselves to meet the demands of a new era.
That begins with our economic leadership.
Adam Smith’s central insight remains true today: There is no greater generator of wealth and
innovation than a system of free enterprise that unleashes the full potential of individual men
and women. That’s what led to the Industrial Revolution that began in the factories of
Manchester. That is what led to the dawn of the Information Age that arose from the office
parks of Silicon Valley. That’s why countries like China, India and Brazil are growing so rapidly
-- because in fits and starts, they are moving toward market-based principles that the United
States and the United Kingdom have always embraced.
In other words, we live in a global economy that is largely of our own making. And today, the
competition for the best jobs and industries favors countries that are free-thinking and
forward-looking; countries with the most creative and innovative and entrepreneurial citizens.
That gives nations like the United States and the United Kingdom an inherent advantage. For
from Newton and Darwin to Edison and Einstein, from Alan Turing to Steve Jobs, we have led
the world in our commitment to science and cutting-edge research, the discovery of new
medicines and technologies. We educate our citizens and train our workers in the best
colleges and universities on Earth. But to maintain this advantage in a world that’s more
competitive than ever, we will have to redouble our investments in science and engineering,
and renew our national commitments to educating our workforces.
We’ve also been reminded in the last few years that markets can sometimes fail. In the last
century, both our nations put in place regulatory frameworks to deal with such market failures
-- safeguards to protect the banking system after the Great Depression, for example;
regulations that were established to prevent the pollution of our air and water during the
1970s.
But in today’s economy, such threats of market failure can no longer be contained within the
borders of any one country. Market failures can go global, and go viral, and demand
international responses.
A financial crisis that began on Wall Street infected nearly every continent, which is why we
must keep working through forums like the G20 to put in place global rules of the road to
prevent future excesses and abuse. No country can hide from the dangers of carbon pollution,
which is why we must build on what was achieved at Copenhagen and Cancun to leave our
children a planet that is safer and cleaner.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Moreover, even when the free market works as it should, both our countries recognize that no
matter how responsibly we live in our lives, hard times or bad luck, a crippling illness or a
layoff may strike any one of us. And so part of our common tradition has expressed itself in a
conviction that every citizen deserves a basic measure of security -- health care if you get
sick, unemployment insurance if you lose your job, a dignified retirement after a lifetime of
hard work. That commitment to our citizens has also been the reason for our leadership in the
world.
And now, having come through a terrible recession, our challenge is to meet these obligations
while ensuring that we’re not consuming -- and hence consumed with -- a level of debt that
could sap the strength and vitality of our economies. And that will require difficult choices and
it will require different paths for both of our countries. But we have faced such challenges
before, and have always been able to balance the need for fiscal responsibility with the
responsibilities we have to one another.
And I believe we can do this again. As we do, the successes and failures of our own past can
serve as an example for emerging economies -- that it’s possible to grow without polluting;
that lasting prosperity comes not from what a nation consumes, but from what it produces,
and from the investments it makes in its people and its infrastructure.
And just as we must lead on behalf of the prosperity of our citizens, so we must safeguard
their security. Our two nations know what it is to confront evil in the world. Hitler’s armies
would not have stopped their killing had we not fought them on the beaches and on the
landing grounds, in the fields and on the streets. We must never forget that there was nothing
inevitable about our victory in that terrible war. It was won through the courage and character
of our people.
Precisely because we are willing to bear its burden, we know well the cost of war. And that is
why we built an alliance that was strong enough to defend this continent while deterring our
enemies. At its core, NATO is rooted in the simple concept of Article Five: that no NATO nation
will have to fend on its own; that allies will stand by one another, always. And for six decades,
NATO has been the most successful alliance in human history.
Today, we confront a different enemy. Terrorists have taken the lives of our citizens in New
York and in London. And while al Qaeda seeks a religious war with the West, we must
remember that they have killed thousands of Muslims -- men, women and children -- around
the globe. Our nations are not and will never be at war with Islam. Our fight is focused on
defeating al Qaeda and its extremist allies. In that effort, we will not relent, as Osama bin
Laden and his followers have learned. And as we fight an enemy that respects no law of war,
we will continue to hold ourselves to a higher standard -- by living up to the values, the rule
of law and due process that we so ardently defend.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
For almost a decade, Afghanistan has been a central front of these efforts. Throughout those
years, you, the British people, have been a stalwart ally, along with so many others who fight
by our side.
Together, let us pay tribute to all of our men and women who have served and sacrificed over
the last several years -- for they are part of an unbroken line of heroes who have borne the
heaviest burden for the freedoms that we enjoy. Because of them, we have broken the
Taliban’s momentum. Because of them, we have built the capacity of Afghan security
forces. And because of them, we are now preparing to turn a corner in Afghanistan by
transitioning to Afghan lead. And during this transition, we will pursue a lasting peace with
those who break free of al Qaeda and respect the Afghan constitution and lay down arms. And
we will ensure that Afghanistan is never a safe haven for terror, but is instead a country that
is strong, sovereign, and able to stand on its own two feet.
Indeed, our efforts in this young century have led us to a new concept for NATO that will give
us the capabilities needed to meet new threats -- threats like terrorism and piracy, cyber
attacks and ballistic missiles. But a revitalized NATO will continue to hew to that original vision
of its founders, allowing us to rally collective action for the defense of our people, while
building upon the broader belief of Roosevelt and Churchill that all nations have both rights
and responsibilities, and all nations share a common interest in an international architecture
that maintains the peace.
We also share a common interest in stopping the spread of nuclear weapons. Across the
globe, nations are locking down nuclear materials so they never fall into the wrong hands -because of our leadership. From North Korea to Iran, we’ve sent a message that those who
flaunt their obligations will face consequences -- which is why America and the European
Union just recently strengthened our sanctions on Iran, in large part because of the leadership
of the United Kingdom and the United States. And while we hold others to account, we will
meet our own obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and strive for a world without
nuclear weapons.
We share a common interest in resolving conflicts that prolong human suffering and threaten
to tear whole regions asunder. In Sudan, after years of war and thousands of deaths, we call
on both North and South to pull back from the brink of violence and choose the path of
peace. And in the Middle East, we stand united in our support for a secure Israel and a
sovereign Palestine.
And we share a common interest in development that advances dignity and security. To
succeed, we must cast aside the impulse to look at impoverished parts of the globe as a place
for charity. Instead, we should empower the same forces that have allowed our own people to
thrive: We should help the hungry to feed themselves, the doctors who care for the sick. We
should support countries that confront corruption, and allow their people to innovate. And we
should advance the truth that nations prosper when they allow women and girls to reach their
full potential.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
We do these things because we believe not simply in the rights of nations; we believe in the
rights of citizens. That is the beacon that guided us through our fight against fascism and our
twilight struggle against communism. And today, that idea is being put to the test in the
Middle East and North Africa. In country after country, people are mobilizing to free
themselves from the grip of an iron fist. And while these movements for change are just six
months old, we have seen them play out before -- from Eastern Europe to the Americas, from
South Africa to Southeast Asia.
History tells us that democracy is not easy. It will be years before these revolutions reach
their conclusion, and there will be difficult days along the way. Power rarely gives up without a
fight -- particularly in places where there are divisions of tribe and divisions of sect. We also
know that populism can take dangerous turns -- from the extremism of those who would use
democracy to deny minority rights, to the nationalism that left so many scars on this
continent in the 20th century.
But make no mistake: What we saw, what we are seeing in Tehran, in Tunis, in Tahrir Square,
is a longing for the same freedoms that we take for granted here at home. It was a rejection
of the notion that people in certain parts of the world don’t want to be free, or need to have
democracy imposed upon them. It was a rebuke to the worldview of al Qaeda, which smothers
the rights of individuals, and would thereby subject them to perpetual poverty and violence.
Let there be no doubt: The United States and United Kingdom stand squarely on the side of
those who long to be free. And now, we must show that we will back up those words with
deeds. That means investing in the future of those nations that transition to democracy,
starting with Tunisia and Egypt -- by deepening ties of trade and commerce; by helping them
demonstrate that freedom brings prosperity. And that means standing up for universal rights - by sanctioning those who pursue repression, strengthening civil society, supporting the
rights of minorities.
We do this knowing that the West must overcome suspicion and mistrust among many in the
Middle East and North Africa -- a mistrust that is rooted in a difficult past. For years, we’ve
faced charges of hypocrisy from those who do not enjoy the freedoms that they hear us
espouse. And so to them, we must squarely acknowledge that, yes, we have enduring
interests in the region -- to fight terror, sometimes with partners who may not be perfect; to
protect against disruptions of the world’s energy supply. But we must also insist that we reject
as false the choice between our interests and our ideals; between stability and democracy. For
our idealism is rooted in the realities of history -- that repression offers only the false promise
of stability, that societies are more successful when their citizens are free, and that
democracies are the closest allies we have.
It is that truth that guides our action in Libya. It would have been easy at the outset of the
crackdown in Libya to say that none of this was our business -- that a nation’s sovereignty is
more important than the slaughter of civilians within its borders.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
That argument carries weight with some. But we are different. We embrace a broader
responsibility. And while we cannot stop every injustice, there are circumstances that cut
through our caution -- when a leader is threatening to massacre his people, and the
international community is calling for action. That’s why we stopped a massacre in Libya. And
we will not relent until the people of Libya are protected and the shadow of tyranny is lifted.
We will proceed with humility, and the knowledge that we cannot dictate every outcome
abroad. Ultimately, freedom must be won by the people themselves, not imposed from
without. But we can and must stand with those who so struggle. Because we have always
believed that the future of our children and grandchildren will be better if other people’s
children and grandchildren are more prosperous and more free -- from the beaches of
Normandy to the Balkans to Benghazi. That is our interests and our ideals. And if we fail to
meet that responsibility, who would take our place, and what kind of world would we pass on?
Our action -- our leadership -- is essential to the cause of human dignity. And so we must act
-- and lead -- with confidence in our ideals, and an abiding faith in the character of our
people, who sent us all here today.
For there is one final quality that I believe makes the United States and the United Kingdom
indispensable to this moment in history. And that is how we define ourselves as nations.
Unlike most countries in the world, we do not define citizenship based on race or ethnicity.

Being American or British is not about belonging to a certain group;
it’s about believing in a certain set of ideals -- the rights of individuals, the rule of law. That is
why we hold incredible diversity within our borders. That’s why there are people around the
world right now who believe that if they come to America, if they come to New York, if they
come to London, if they work hard, they can pledge allegiance to our flag and call themselves
Americans; if they come to England, they can make a new life for themselves and can sing
God Save The Queen just like any other citizen.
Yes, our diversity can lead to tension. And throughout our history there have been heated
debates about immigration and assimilation in both of our countries. But even as these
debates can be difficult, we fundamentally recognize that our patchwork heritage is an
enormous strength -- that in a world which will only grow smaller and more interconnected,
the example of our two nations says it is possible for people to be united by their ideals,
instead of divided by their differences; that it’s possible for hearts to change and old hatreds
to pass; that it’s possible for the sons and daughters of former colonies to sit here as

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
members of this great Parliament, and for the grandson of a Kenyan who served as a cook in
the British Army to stand before you as President of the United States.
That is what defines us. That is why the young men and women in the streets of Damascus
and Cairo still reach for the rights our citizens enjoy, even if they sometimes differ with our
policies. As two of the most powerful nations in the history of the world, we must always
remember that the true source of our influence hasn’t just been the size of our economies, or
the reach of our militaries, or the land that we’ve claimed. It has been the values that we
must never waver in defending around the world -- the idea that all beings are endowed by
our Creator with certain rights that cannot be denied.
That is what forged our bond in the fire of war -- a bond made manifest by the friendship
between two of our greatest leaders. Churchill and Roosevelt had their differences. They were
keen observers of each other’s blind spots and shortcomings, if not always their own, and
they were hard-headed about their ability to remake the world. But what joined the fates of
these two men at that particular moment in history was not simply a shared interest in victory
on the battlefield. It was a shared belief in the ultimate triumph of human freedom and human
dignity -- a conviction that we have a say in how this story ends.
This conviction lives on in their people today. The challenges we face are great. The work
before us is hard. But we have come through a difficult decade, and whenever the tests and
trials ahead may seem too big or too many, let us turn to their example, and the words that
Churchill spoke on the day that Europe was freed:
In the long years to come, not only will the people of this island but…the world,
wherever the bird of freedom chirps in [the] human heart, look back to what we’ve
done, and they will say ‘do not despair, do not yield…march straightforward’.
With courage and purpose, with humility and with hope, with faith in the promise of
tomorrow, let us march straightforward together, enduring allies in the cause of a world that
is more peaceful, more prosperous, and more just.
Thank you very much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329729" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Brookings_Institute.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Brookings%20Institute.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on Job Creation and Economic Growth at the Brookings Institution
Delivered 8 December 2009, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much, Strobe, for your extraordinary leadership here at Brookings, and thanks
to all of you in attendance.
Almost exactly one year ago, on a frigid winter's day, I met with my new economic team at
the headquarters of my presidential transition offices in Chicago. And over the course of four
hours, my advisors presented an analysis of where the economy at that time stood,
accompanied by a chilling set of charts and graphs, predicting where we might end up. It was
an unforgettable series of presentations.
Christy Romer -- who's here today -- tapped to head the Council of Economic Advisers, as well
as Larry Summers, who I'd chosen to head the National Economic Council, described an
imminent downturn comparable in its severity to almost nothing since the 1930s. Tim
Geithner, my incoming Treasury Secretary, reported that the financial system, shaken by the
subprime crisis, had halted almost all lending, which in turn threatened to pull the broader
economy in a downward spiral. Peter Orszag, my incoming Budget Director, closed out the
proceedings with an entirely dismal report on the fiscal health of the country, with growing
deficits and debt stretching to the horizon. Having concluded that it was too late for me to
request a recount -- I tasked my team with mapping out a plan to tackle the crisis on all
fronts.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It wasn't long after that meeting, as we shaped this economic plan, that we began to see
some of these forecasts materialize. Over the previous year, it was obvious that folks were
facing hard times. As I traveled across the country during the long campaign, I would meet
men and women bearing the brunt of not only a deepening recession, but also years -- even
decades -- of growing strains on middle class families. But now the country was experiencing
something far worse. Our gross domestic product -- the sum total of all that our economy
produces -- fell at the fastest rate in a quarter century. Five trillion dollars of Americans'
household wealth evaporated in just 12 weeks as stocks, pensions, and home values
plummeted. We were losing an average of 700,000 jobs each month, equivalent to the
population of the state of Vermont. That was true in December, January, February, March.
The fear among economists across the political spectrum that was -- was that we were rapidly
plummeting towards a second Great Depression.
So, in the weeks and months that followed, we undertook a series of difficult steps to prevent
that outcome. And we were forced to take those steps largely without the help of an
opposition party, which, unfortunately, after having presided over the decision-making that
had led to the crisis, decided to hand it over to others to solve.
We acted to get lending flowing again so businesses could get loans to buy equipment, and
ordinary Americans could get financing to buy homes and cars, to go to college, and to start
or run businesses. We enacted measures to stem the tide of foreclosures in our housing
market, helping responsible homeowners stay in their homes and helping to stop the broader
decline in home values which was eating away at what tends to be a family's largest asset.
To achieve this, and to prevent economic collapse, we were forced to extend assistance to
some of the very banks and financial institutions whose actions had helped precipitate the
turmoil. We also took steps to prevent the rapid dissolution of the American auto industry -which faced a crisis partly of its own making -- to prevent the loss of hundreds of thousands
of jobs during an already fragile, shaky time. These were not decisions that were popular or
satisfying; these were decisions that were necessary.
Now, even as we worked to address the crises in our banking sector, in our housing market,
and in our auto industry, we also began attacking our economic crisis on a broader front. Less
than one month after taking office we enacted the most sweeping economic recovery package
in history: the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act.
The Recovery Act was divided into three parts. One-third went for tax relief for small
businesses and 95 percent of working families. Another third was for emergency relief to help
folks who've borne the brunt of this recession. We extended or increased unemployment
benefits for more than 17 million Americans; made health insurance 65 percent cheaper for
families relying on COBRA. And for state and local governments facing historic budget
shortfalls as demand for services went up and revenues went down, we provided assistance
that has saved the jobs of hundreds of thousands of teachers and public school workers,
firefighters and police officers.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
The last third of the Recovery Act is for investments to put Americans to work doing the work
that America needs done: doubling our capacity in renewable energy like wind and solar;
computerizing medical records to save money and lives; providing the largest boost to
medical research in history; renovating classrooms and school laboratories; and upgrading
roads and railways as part of the largest investment in infrastructure since the creation of the
Interstate Highway System half a century ago.
And even as the Recovery Act has created jobs and spurred growth, we have not let up in our
efforts to take every responsible action to get the economy growing and America working.
This fall, I signed into law more than $30 billion in tax cuts for struggling businesses,
extended an effective tax credit for homebuyers, and provided additional unemployment
insurance for one million Americans. And the Treasury is continuing to adapt our financial
stability plan, helping to facilitate the flow of small credit to small businesses and families. In
addition, we're working to break down barriers and open overseas markets so our companies
can better compete globally, creating jobs in America by exporting our products around the
world.
Now, partly as a result of these and other steps, we are in a very different place today than
we were one year ago. We may forget, but we're in a very different place. We can safely say
that we are no longer facing the potential collapse of our financial system and we've avoided
the depression many feared. Our economy is growing for the first time in a year, and the
swing from contraction to expansion since the beginning of the year is the largest in nearly
three decades.
Finally, we're no longer seeing the severe deterioration in the job market that we once were.
In fact we learned on Friday that the unemployment rate fell slightly last month. This is
welcome news, and news made possible in part by the up to 1.6 million jobs that the
Recovery Act has already created and saved according to the Congressional Budget Office.
But I'm here today because our work is far from done. For even though we've reduced the
deluge of job losses to a relative trickle, we are not yet creating jobs at a pace to help all
those families who've been swept up in the flood. There are more than 7 million fewer
Americans with jobs today than when this recession began. That's a staggering figure, and
one that reflects not only the depths of the hole from which we must ascend, but also a
continuing human tragedy.
It was mentioned that I was in Allentown, Pennsylvania, this past weekend, and went to a job
center where people were engaged in job search. And it ran the spectrum -- blacks, whites,
Hispanics, young people who were just starting their careers, individuals 50, 60 years old,
looking for a job. And they were putting a brave face on it, confident that eventually things
would work out, but you could also see the sense of anxiety, the fear that perhaps this time it
was different.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Sometimes it's hard to break out of the bubble here in Washington and remind ourselves that
behind these statistics are people's lives, their capacity to do right by their families. It speaks
to an urgent need to accelerate job growth in the short term while laying a new foundation for
lasting economic growth.
My economic team has been considering a full range of additional ideas to help accelerate the
pace of private sector hiring. We held a jobs forum at the White House that brought together
small business owners, CEOs, union members, economists, folks from non-profits, and state
and local officials to talk about job creation. And I've asked people to lead forums in their
own communities -- sending the results to me -- so we are hearing as many voices as possible
as we refine our proposals. We've already heard a number of good ideas, and I know we'll
learn of many more.
So today, I want to outline some of the broader steps that I believe should be at the heart of
our effort to accelerate job growth -- those areas that will generate the greatest number of
jobs while generating the greatest value for our economy.
First, we're proposing a series of steps to help small businesses grow and hire new staff. Over
the past 15 years, small businesses have created roughly 65 percent of all new jobs in
America. These are companies formed around kitchen tables in family meetings, formed
when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream, formed when a worker decides it's time she
became her own boss. These are also companies that drive innovation, producing 13 times
more patents per employee than large companies. And it's worth remembering, every once in
a while a small business becomes a big business -- and changes the world.
That's why it's so important that we help small business struggling to stay open, or struggling
to open in the first place, during these difficult times. Building on the tax cuts in the Recovery
Act, we're proposing a complete elimination of capital gains taxes on small business
investment along with an extension of write-offs to encourage small businesses to expand in
the coming year. And I believe it's worthwhile to create a tax incentive to encourage small
businesses to add and keep employees, and I'm going to work with Congress to pass one.
Now, these steps will help, but we also have to address the continuing struggle of small
businesses to get loans that they need to start up and grow. To that end, we're proposing to
waive fees and increase the guarantees for SBA-backed loans. And I'm asking my Treasury
Secretary to continue mobilizing the remaining TARP funds to facilitate lending to small
businesses.
Second, we're proposing a boost in investment in the nation's infrastructure beyond what was
included in the Recovery Act, to continue modernizing our transportation and communications
networks. These are needed public works that engage private sector companies, spurring
hiring all across the country.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Already, more than 10,000 of these projects have been funded through the Recovery Act.
And by design, Recovery Act work on roads, bridges, water systems, Superfund sites,
broadband networks, and clean energy projects will all be ramping up in the months ahead. It
was planned this way for two reasons: so the impact would be felt over a two-year period;
and, more importantly, because we wanted to do this right.
The potential for abuse in a program of this magnitude, while operating at such a fast pace,
was enormous. So I asked Vice President Biden and others to make sure to the extent
humanly possible that the investments were sound, the projects worthy, and the execution
efficient. What this means is that we're going to see even more work -- and workers -- on
recovery projects in the next six months than we saw in the last six months.
Even so, there are many more worthy projects than there were dollars to fund them. I
recognize that by their nature these projects often take time, and will therefore create jobs
over time. But the need for jobs will also last beyond next year and the benefits of these
investments will last years beyond that. So adding to this initiative to rebuild America's
infrastructure is the right thing to do.
Third, I'm calling on Congress to consider a new program to provide incentives for consumers
who retrofit their homes to become more energy-efficient, which we know creates jobs, saves
money for families, and reduces the pollution that threatens our environment. And I'm
proposing that we expand select Recovery Act initiatives to promote energy efficiency and
clean energy jobs which have been proven to be particularly popular and effective.
It's a positive sign that many of these programs drew so many applicants for funding that a
lot of strong proposals -- proposals that will leverage private capital and create jobs quickly -did not make the cut. With additional resources, in areas like advanced manufacturing of
wind turbines and solar panels, for instance, we can help turn good ideas into good private
sector jobs.
Finally, as we are moving forward in these areas, we should also extend the relief in the
Recovery Act, including emergency assistance to seniors, unemployment insurance benefits,
COBRA, and relief to states and localities to prevent layoffs. This will help folks weathering
these storms, while boosting consumer spending and promoting job growth.
Of course, there's only so much government can do. Job creation will ultimately depend on the
real job creators: businesses across America. We were encouraged today to hear from the
Business Roundtable that their survey showed greater confidence and greater potential
investment coming out of the business community.
Government can help lay the groundwork on which the private sector can better generate
jobs, growth, and innovation. After all, small business tax relief is not a substitute for
ingenuity and industriousness by our entrepreneurs -- but it can help those with good ideas to
grow and expand.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Incentives to promote energy efficiency and clean energy manufacturing don't automatically
create jobs or lower carbon emissions -- but these steps provide a framework in which
companies can compete and innovate to create those jobs and reduce energy consumption.
And while modernizing the physical and virtual networks that connect us will create privatesector jobs, they'll do so while making it possible for companies to more easily and effectively
move their products across this country and around the world, and that will create more jobs.
And given the challenges of accelerating the pace of hiring in the private sector, these
targeted initiatives are right and they are needed. But with a fiscal crisis to match our
economic crisis, we also must be prudent about how we fund it. So to help support these
efforts, we are going to wind down the Troubled Asset Relief Program -- or TARP -- the fund
created to stabilize the financial system so banks would lend again.
I don't think I have to tell you there has rarely been a less loved or more necessary
emergency program than TARP, which -- as galling as the assistance to banks may have been
-- indisputably helped prevent a collapse of the entire financial system. Launched hastily -understandably, but hastily -- under the last administration, the TARP program was flawed,
and we have worked hard to correct those flaws and manage it properly. And today, TARP
has served its original purpose and at much lower cost than we expected.
In fact, because of our stewardship of this program, and the transparency and accountability
we put in place, TARP is expected to cost the taxpayers at least $200 billion less than what
was anticipated just this past summer. And the assistance to banks, once thought to cost
taxpayers untold billions, is on track to actually reap billions in profits for the taxpaying
public. So this gives us a chance to pay down the deficit faster than we thought possible and
to shift funds that would have gone to help the banks on Wall Street to help create jobs on
Main Street.
Small business, infrastructure, clean energy -- these are areas in which we can put Americans
to work while putting our nation on a sturdier economic footing. That foundation for sustained
economic growth -- that must be our continuing focus and our ultimate goal.
I've said this before. Even before this particular crisis, much of our growth for a decade or
more had been fueled by unsustainable consumer debt and reckless financial speculation,
while we ignored the fundamental challenges that hold the key to our economic prosperity.
We cannot simply go back to the way things used to be. We can't go back to an economy that
yielded cycle after cycle of speculative booms and painful busts. We can't continue to accept
an education system in which our students trail their peers in other countries, and a health
care system in which exploding costs put our businesses at a competitive disadvantage. And
we cannot continue to ignore the clean energy challenge or cede global leadership in the
emerging industries of the 21st century. And that's why, even as we strive to meet the crisis
of the moment, we have insisted on laying a new foundation for the future.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Because an educated workforce is essential to a 21st century global economy, we've launched
a competitive Race to the Top fund through the Recovery Act to reform our schools and raise
achievement, especially in math and science. And we've made college more affordable,
proposed a historic set of reforms and investments in community college, and set a goal of
once again leading the world in producing college graduates by the year 2020.
Because even the best-trained worker in the world can't compete if our businesses are
saddled with rapidly increasing health care costs, we are fighting to do what we have
discussed in this country for generations -- finally reforming our nation's broken health
insurance system and relieving this unsustainable burden.
Because our economic future depends on a financial system that encourages sound
investments, honest dealings, and long-term growth, we've proposed the most ambitious
financial reforms since the Great Depression. We'll set and enforce clear rules of the road,
close loopholes in oversight, charge a new agency with protecting consumers and address the
dangerous, systemic risks that brought us to the brink of disaster. These reforms are moving
through Congress, we're working to keep those reforms strong, and I'm looking forward to
signing them into law.
And because our economic future depends on our leadership in the industries of the future, we
are investing in basic applied research, and working to create the incentives to build a new
clean energy economy. For we know the nation that leads in clean energy will be the nation
that leads the world. I want America to be that nation. I want America's prosperity to be
powered by what we invent and pioneer -- not just what we borrow and what we consume.
And I know that we can and will be that nation if we are willing to do what it takes to get
there.
Now, there are those who claim we have to choose between paying down our deficits on the
one hand, and investing in job creation and economic growth on the other. This is a false
choice. Ensuring that economic growth and job creation are strong and sustained is critical to
ensuring that we are increasing revenues and decreasing spending on things like
unemployment insurance so that our deficits will start coming down. At the same time,
instilling confidence in our commitment to being fiscally prudent gives the private sector the
confidence to make long-term investments in our people and in America.
So one of the central goals of this administration is restoring fiscal responsibility. Even as we
have had to spend our way out of this recession in the near term, we've begun to make the
hard choices necessary to get our country on a more stable fiscal footing in the long run. So
let me just be clear here. Despite what some have claimed, the cost of the Recovery Act is
only a very small part of our current budget imbalance. In reality, the deficit had been
building dramatically over the previous eight years. We have a structural gap between the
money going out and the money coming in.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Folks passed tax cuts and expansive entitlement programs without paying for any of it -- even
as health care costs kept rising, year after year. As a result, the deficit had reached $1.3
trillion when we walked into the White House. And I'd note: These budget-busting tax cuts
and spending programs were approved by many of the same people who are now waxing
political about fiscal responsibility, while opposing our efforts to reduce deficits by getting
health care costs under control. It's a sight to see.
The fact is we have refused to go along with business as usual; we are taking responsibility
for every dollar we spend. We've done what some said was impossible: preventing wasteful
spending on outdated weapons systems that even the Pentagon said it didn't want. We've
combed the budget, cutting waste and excess wherever we could. I'm still committed to
halving the deficit we inherited by the end of my first term -- cutting it in half.
And I made clear from day one that I would not sign a health insurance reform bill if it raised
the deficit by one dime -- and neither the House, nor the Senate bill does. We've begun not
only changing policies in Washington, we've also begun to change the culture in Washington.
In the end, the economic crisis of the past year was not just the result of weaknesses in our
economy. It was also the result of weaknesses in our political system, because for decades,
too many in Washington put off the hard decisions. For decades, we've watched as efforts to
solve tough problems have fallen prey to the bitterness of partisanship, to prosaic concerns of
politics, to ever-quickening news cycles, to endless campaigns focused on scoring points
instead of meeting our common challenges.
We've seen the consequences of this failure of responsibility. The American people have paid
a heavy price. And the question we'll have to answer now is if we're going to learn from our
past, or if -- even in the aftermath of disaster -- we're going to repeat those same mistakes.
As the alarm bells fade, the din of Washington rises, as the forces of the status quo marshal
their resources, we can be sure that answering this question will be a fight to the finish. But I
have every hope and expectation that we can rise to this moment, that we can transcend the
failures of the past, that we can once again take responsibility for our future.
Every night I read letters and e-mails sent to me from people across America -- ordinary
folks, people who share their hopes and their hardships, their faith in this country, their
frustration with what's happened in this economy. I hear from small business owners worried
about making payroll, keeping their doors open. I hear from mothers and fathers, sons and
daughters, who've seen one or two or more family members out of work. The toughest letters
are in children's handwriting -- kids write to me, my dad just lost a job; my grandma is sick,
she can't afford health insurance -- kids who can't just be kids because they're worried about
mom having her hours cut or dad losing a job, or a family without health insurance.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
These folks aren't looking for a handout, they're not looking for a bailout -- just like those
people I visited in Allentown -- all they're looking for is a chance to make their own way, to
work, to succeed using their talents and skills. And they're looking for folks in Washington to
have a seriousness of purpose that matches the reality of their struggle.
Everywhere I've gone, every stop I've made, there are people like this, men and women who
have faced misfortune, but who stand ready to build a better future: students ready to learn,
workers eager to work, scientists on the brink of discovery, entrepreneurs seeking the chance
to open a small business. Everywhere I go, there are once-shuttered factories just waiting to
whir back to life in burgeoning industries. There is a nation ready to meet the challenges of
this new age and to lead the world in this new century. And as we look back on the progress
of the past year, and look forward to the work ahead, I have every confidence that we will do
exactly that.
These have been a tough two years. And there will no doubt be difficult months ahead. But
the storms of the past are receding. The skies are brightening. And the horizon is beckoning
once more.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329672" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Buchenwald_Concentration_Camp.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Buchenwald%20Concentration%20Camp.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at Buchenwald Concentration Camp

Delivered 4 June 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Chancellor Merkel and I have just finished our tour here at Buchenwald. I want to thank Dr. Volkhard
Knigge, who gave an outstanding account of what we were witnessing. I am particularly grateful to be
accompanied by my friend Elie Wiesel, as well as Mr. Bertrand Herz, both of whom are survivors of this
place.
We saw the area known as Little Camp where Elie and Bertrand were sent as boys. In fact, at the place that
commemorates this camp, there is a photograph in which we can see a 16-year-old Elie in one of the bunks
along with the others. We saw the ovens of the crematorium, the guard towers, the barbed wire fences, the
foundations of barracks that once held people in the most unimaginable conditions.
We saw the memorial to all the survivors -- a steel plate, as Chancellor Merkel said, that is heated to 37
degrees Celsius, the temperature of the human body; a reminder -- where people were deemed inhuman
because of their differences -- of the mark that we all share.
Now these sights have not lost their horror with the passage of time. As we were walking up, Elie said, "if
these trees could talk." And there's a certain irony about the beauty of the landscape and the horror that
took place here.
More than half a century later, our grief and our outrage over what happened have not diminished. I will not
forget what I've seen here today.
I've known about this place since I was a boy, hearing stories about my great uncle, who was a very young
man serving in World War II. He was part of the 89th Infantry Division, the first Americans to reach a
concentration camp. They liberated Ohrdruf, one of Buchenwald's sub-camps.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I told this story, he returned from his service in a state of shock saying little and isolating himself for
months on end from family and friends, alone with the painful memories that would not leave his head. And
as we see -- as we saw some of the images here, it's understandable that someone who witnessed what
had taken place here would be in a state of shock.
My great uncle's commander, General Eisenhower, understood this impulse to silence. He had seen the
piles of bodies and starving survivors and deplorable conditions that the American soldiers found when they
arrived, and he knew that those who witnessed these things might be too stunned to speak about them or
be able -- be unable to find the words to describe them; that they might be rendered mute in the way my
great uncle had. And he knew that what had happened here was so unthinkable that after the bodies had
been taken away, that perhaps no one would believe it.
And that's why he ordered American troops and Germans from the nearby town to tour the camp. He invited
congressmen and journalists to bear witness and ordered photographs and films to be made. And he
insisted on viewing every corner of these camps so that -- and I quote -- he could "be in a position to give
first-hand evidence of these things if ever in the future there develops a tendency to charge these
allegations merely to propaganda."
We are here today because we know this work is not yet finished. To this day, there are those who insist
that the Holocaust never happened -- a denial of fact and truth that is baseless and ignorant and hateful.
This place is the ultimate rebuke to such thoughts; a reminder of our duty to confront those who would tell
lies about our history.
Also to this day, there are those who perpetuate every form of intolerance -- racism, anti-Semitism,
homophobia, xenophobia, sexism, and more -- hatred that degrades its victims and diminishes us all. In this
century, we've seen genocide. We've seen mass graves and the ashes of villages burned to the ground;
children used as soldiers and rape used as a weapon of war. This places teaches us that we must be ever
vigilant about the spread of evil in our own time, that we must reject the false comfort that others' suffering is
not our problem and commit ourselves to resisting those who would subjugate others to serve their own
interests.
But as we reflect today on the human capacity for evil and our shared obligation to defy it, we're also
reminded of the human capacity for good. For amidst the countless acts of cruelty that took place here, we
know that there were many acts of courage and kindness, as well. The Jews who insisted on fasting on Yom
Kippur. The camp cook who hid potatoes in the lining of his prison uniform and distributed them to his fellow
inmates, risking his own life to help save theirs. The prisoners who organized a special effort to protect the
children here, sheltering them from work and giving them extra food. They set up secret classrooms, some
of the inmates, and taught history and math and urged the children to think about their future professions.
And we were just hearing about the resistance that formed and the irony that the base for the resistance
was in the latrine areas because the guards found it so offensive that they wouldn't go there. And so out of
the filth, that became a space in which small freedoms could thrive.
When the American GIs arrived they were astonished to find more than 900 children still alive, and the
youngest was just three years old. And I'm told that a couple of the prisoners even wrote a Buchenwald
song that many here sang.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Among the lyrics were these: "...whatever our fate, we will say yes to life, for the day will come when we are
free...in our blood we carry the will to live and in our hearts, in our hearts -- faith."
These individuals never could have known the world would one day speak of this place. They could not
have known that some of them would live to have children and grandchildren who would grow up hearing
their stories and would return here so many years later to find a museum and memorials and the clock tower
set permanently to 3:15, the moment of liberation.
They could not have known how the nation of Israel would rise out of the destruction of the Holocaust and
the strong, enduring bonds between that great nation and my own. And they could not have known that one
day an American President would visit this place and speak of them and that he would do so standing side
by side with the German Chancellor in a Germany that is now a vibrant democracy and a valued American
ally.
They could not have known these things. But still surrounded by death they willed themselves to hold fast to
life. In their hearts they still had faith that evil would not triumph in the end, that while history is unknowable
it arches towards progress, and that the world would one day remember them. And it is now up to us, the
living, in our work, wherever we are, to resist injustice and intolerance and indifference in whatever forms
they may take, and ensure that those who were lost here did not go in vain. It is up to us to redeem that
faith. It is up to us to bear witness; to ensure that the world continues to note what happened here; to
remember all those who survived and all those who perished, and to remember them not just as victims, but
also as individuals who hoped and loved and dreamed just like us.
And just as we identify with the victims, it's also important for us I think to remember that the perpetrators of
such evil were human, as well, and that we have to guard against cruelty in ourselves. And I want to
express particular thanks to Chancellor Merkel and the German people, because it's not easy to look into
the past in this way and acknowledge it and make something of it, make a determination that they will stand
guard against acts like this happening again.
Rather than have me end with my remarks I thought it was appropriate to have Elie Wiesel provide some
reflection and some thought as he returns here so many years later to the place where his father died.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329669" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Cairo_University.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Cairo%20University.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
A New Beginning: Speech at Cairo University
delivered 4 June 2009, Cairo, Egypt

Thank you so much. Good afternoon. I am honored to be in the timeless city of Cairo, and to
be hosted by two remarkable institutions. For over a thousand years, Al-Azhar has stood as a
beacon of Islamic learning; and for over a century, Cairo University has been a source of
Egypt's advancement. And together, you represent the harmony between tradition and
progress. I'm grateful for your hospitality and the hospitality of the people of Egypt. And I'm
also proud to carry with me the goodwill of the American people, and a greeting of peace from
Muslim communities in my country: As-salāmu ʿalaykum [Peace be upon you].
We meet at a time of great tension between the United States and Muslims around the world,
tension rooted in historical forces that go beyond any current policy debate. The relationship
between Islam and the West includes centuries of coexistence and cooperation, but also
conflict and religious wars. More recently, tension has been fed by colonialism that denied
rights and opportunities to many Muslims, and a Cold War in which Muslim-majority countries
were too often treated as proxies without regard to their own aspirations.
Moreover, the sweeping change brought by modernity and globalization led many Muslims to
view the West as hostile to the traditions of Islam.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Violent extremists have exploited these tensions in a small but potent minority of
Muslims. The attacks of September 11, 2001 and the continued efforts of these extremists to
engage in violence against civilians has led some in my country to view Islam as inevitably
hostile not only to America and Western countries, but also to human rights. All this has bred
more fear and more mistrust.
So long as our relationship is defined by our differences, we will empower those who sow
hatred rather than peace, those who promote conflict rather than the cooperation that can
help all of our people achieve justice and prosperity. And this cycle of suspicion and discord
must end.
I've come here to Cairo to seek a new beginning between the United States and Muslims
around the world, one based on mutual interest and mutual respect, and one based upon the
truth that America and Islam are not exclusive and need not be in competition. Instead, they
overlap and share common principles -- principles of justice and progress, tolerance and the
dignity of all human beings.
I do so recognizing that change cannot happen overnight. I know there's been a lot of
publicity about this speech, but no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust, nor can I
answer in the time that I have this afternoon all the complex questions that brought us to this
point. But I am convinced that in order to move forward, we must say openly to each other
the things we hold in our hearts and that too often are said only behind closed doors. There
must be a sustained effort to listen to each other, to learn from each other, to respect one
another, and to seek common ground. As the Holy Qur’an tells us, "Be conscious of God and
speak always the truth." That is what I will try to do today -- to speak the truth as best I can,
humbled by the task before us, and firm in my belief that the interests we share as human
beings are far more powerful than the forces that drive us apart.
Now part of this conviction is rooted in my own experience. I'm a Christian, but my father
came from a Kenyan family that includes generations of Muslims. As a boy, I spent several
years in Indonesia and heard the call of the azaan at the break of dawn and at the fall of
dusk. As a young man, I worked in Chicago communities where many found dignity and
peace in their Muslim faith.
As a student of history, I also know civilization's debt to Islam. It was Islam -- at places like
Al-Azhar -- that carried the light of learning through so many centuries, paving the way for
Europe's Renaissance and Enlightenment. It was innovation in Muslim communities -- It was
innovation in Muslim communities that developed the order of algebra, our magnetic compass

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
and tools of navigation, our mastery of pens and printing, our understanding of how disease
spreads and how it can be healed. Islamic culture has given us majestic arches and soaring
spires; timeless poetry and cherished music; elegant calligraphy and places of peaceful
contemplation. And throughout history, Islam has demonstrated through words and deeds the
possibilities of religious tolerance and racial equality.
I also know that Islam has always been a part of America's story. The first nation to recognize
my country was Morocco. In signing the Treaty of Tripoli in 1796, our second President, John
Adams, wrote, "The United States has in itself no character of enmity against the laws,
religion, or tranquility of Muslims." And since our founding, American Muslims have enriched
the United States. They have fought in our wars; they have served in our government; they
have stood for civil rights; they have started businesses; they have taught at our universities;
they've excelled in our sports arenas; they've won Nobel Prizes, built our tallest building, and
lit the Olympic Torch. And when the first Muslim American was recently elected to Congress,
he took the oath to defend our Constitution using the same Holy Qur’an that one of our
Founding Fathers -- Thomas Jefferson -- kept in his personal library.
So I have known Islam on three continents before coming to the region where it was first
revealed. That experience guides my conviction that partnership between America and Islam
must be based on what Islam is, not what it isn't.
And I consider it part of my responsibility as President of the United States to fight against
negative stereotypes of Islam wherever they appear.
But, that same principle must apply to Muslim perceptions of America. Just as Muslims -- Just
as Muslims do not fit a crude stereotype, America is not the crude stereotype of a selfinterested empire. The United States has been one of the greatest sources of progress that
the world has ever known. We were born out of revolution against an empire. We were
founded upon the ideal that all are created equal. And we have shed blood and struggled for
centuries to give meaning to those words -- within our borders and around the world. We are
shaped by every culture, drawn from every end of the Earth, and dedicated to a simple
concept: E pluribus unum -- "Out of many, one."
Now much has been made of the fact that an African American with the name Barack Hussein
Obama could be elected President. But my personal story is not so unique. The dream of
opportunity for all people has not come true for everyone in America, but its promise exists
for all who come to our shores -- and that includes nearly 7 million American Muslims in our

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
country today who, by the way, enjoy incomes and educational levels that are higher than the
American average.
Moreover, freedom in America is indivisible from the freedom to practice one's religion. That is
why there is a mosque in every state in our union, and over 1200 mosques within our
borders. That's why the United States government has gone to court to protect the right of
women and girls to wear the hijab -- and to punish those who would deny it.
So let there be no doubt -- let there be no doubt: Islam is a part of America. And I believe
that America holds within her the truth that regardless of race, religion, or station in life, all of
us share common aspirations -- to live in peace and security; to get an education and to work
with dignity; to love our families, our communities, and our God. These things we share. This
is the hope of all humanity.
Of course, recognizing our common humanity is only the beginning of our task. Words alone
cannot meet the needs of our people. These needs will be met only if we act boldly in the
years ahead, and if we understand that the challenges we face are shared and our failure to
meet them will hurt us all.
For we have learned from recent experience that when a financial system weakens in one
country, prosperity is hurt everywhere. When a new flu infects one human being, all are at
risk. When one nation pursues a nuclear weapon, the risk of nuclear attack rises for all
nations. When violent extremists operate in one stretch of mountains, people are endangered
across an ocean. When innocents in Bosnia and Darfur are slaughtered, that is a stain on our
collective conscience. That is what it means to share this world in the 21st century. That is the
responsibility we have to one another as human beings.
And this is a difficult responsibility to embrace. For human history has often been a record of
nations and tribes -- and, yes, religions -- subjugating one another in pursuit of their own
interests. Yet in this new age, such attitudes are self-defeating. Given our interdependence,
any world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will inevitably
fail. So whatever we think of the past, we must not be prisoners to it. Our problems must be
dealt with through partnership; our progress must be shared. Now, that does not mean we
should ignore sources of tension. Indeed, it suggests the opposite: We must face these
tensions squarely. And so in that spirit, let me speak as clearly and as plainly as I can about
some specific issues that I believe we must finally confront together.
The first issue that we have to confront is violent extremism in all of its forms.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
In Ankara, I made clear that America is not -- and never will be -- at war with Islam. We will,
however, relentlessly confront violent extremists who pose a grave threat to our security -because we reject the same thing that people of all faiths reject: the killing of innocent men,
women, and children. And it is my first duty as President to protect the American people.
The situation in Afghanistan demonstrates America's goals, and our need to work
together. Over seven years ago, the United States pursued al Qaeda and the Taliban with
broad international support. We did not go by choice; we went because of necessity. I'm
aware that there's still some who would question or even justify the events of 9/11. But let us
be clear: Al Qaeda killed nearly 3,000 people on that day. The victims were innocent men,
women, and children from America and many other nations who had done nothing to harm
anybody. And yet al Qaeda chose to ruthlessly murder these people, claimed credit for the
attack, and even now states their determination to kill on a massive scale. They have affiliates
in many countries and are trying to expand their reach. These are not opinions to be debated;
these are facts to be dealt with.
Now, make no mistake: We do not want to keep our troops in Afghanistan. We see no military
-- We seek no military bases there. It is agonizing for America to lose our young men and
women. It is costly and politically difficult to continue this conflict. We would gladly bring
every single one of our troops home if we could be confident that there were not violent
extremists in Afghanistan and now Pakistan determined to kill as many Americans as they
possibly can. But that is not yet the case.
And that's why we're partnering with a coalition of 46 countries. And despite the costs
involved, America's commitment will not weaken. Indeed, none of us should tolerate these
extremists. They have killed in many countries. They have killed people of different faiths.
But more than any other, they have killed Muslims. Their actions are irreconcilable with the
rights of human beings, the progress of nations, and with Islam. The Qur’an teaches that
whoever kills an innocent is as -- it is as if he has killed all mankind. And the Holy Qur’an also
says whoever -- whoever saves a person, it is as if he has saved all mankind. The enduring
faith of over a billion people is so much bigger than the narrow hatred of a few. Islam is not
part of the problem in combating violent extremism -- it is an important part of promoting
peace.
Now, we also know that military power alone is not going to solve the problems in Afghanistan
and Pakistan. That's why we plan to invest 1.5 billion dollars each year over the next five
years to partner with Pakistanis to build schools and hospitals, roads and businesses, and
hundreds of millions to help those who've been displaced. That's why we are providing more

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
than 2.8 billion dollars to help Afghans develop their economy and deliver services that people
depend on.
Let me also address the issue of Iraq. Unlike Afghanistan, Iraq was a war of choice that
provoked strong differences in my country and around the world. Although I believe that the
Iraqi people are ultimately better off without the tyranny of Saddam Hussein, I also believe
that events in Iraq have reminded America of the need to use diplomacy and build
international consensus to resolve our problems whenever possible. Indeed, we can recall the
words of Thomas Jefferson, who said: "I hope that our wisdom will grow with our power, and
teach us that the less we use our power the greater it will be."
Today, America has a dual responsibility: to help Iraq forge a better future; and to leave Iraq
to Iraqis. And I have made it clear to the Iraqi people -- I have made it clear to the Iraqi
people that we pursue no bases, and no claim on their territory or resources. Iraq's
sovereignty is its own. And that's why I ordered the removal of our combat brigades by next
August. That is why we will honor our agreement with Iraq's democratically elected
government to remove combat troops from Iraqi cities by July, and to remove all of our troops
from Iraq by 2012. We will help Iraq train its security forces and develop its economy. But we
will support a secure and united Iraq as a partner, and never as a patron.
And finally, just as America can never tolerate violence by extremists, we must never alter or
forget our principles. Nine-eleven was an enormous trauma to our country. The fear and
anger that it provoked was understandable, but in some cases it led us to act contrary to our
traditions and our ideals. We are taking concrete actions to change course. I have
unequivocally prohibited the use of torture by the United States, and I have ordered the
prison at Guantanamo Bay closed by early next year.
So America will defend itself, respectful of the sovereignty of nations and the rule of law. And
we will do so in partnership with Muslim communities which are also threatened. The sooner
the extremists are isolated and unwelcome in Muslim communities, the sooner we will all be
safer.
The second major source of tension that we need to discuss is the situation between Israelis,
Palestinians, and the Arab world.
America's strong bonds with Israel are well known. This bond is unbreakable. It is based upon
cultural and historical ties, and the recognition that the aspiration for a Jewish homeland is
rooted in a tragic history that cannot be denied.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Around the world, the Jewish people were persecuted for centuries, and anti-Semitism in
Europe culminated in an unprecedented Holocaust. Tomorrow, I will visit Buchenwald, which
was part of a network of camps where Jews were enslaved, tortured, shot, and gassed to
death by the Third Reich. Six million Jews were killed -- more than the entire Jewish
population of Israel today. Denying that fact is baseless; it is ignorant; and it is
hateful. Threatening Israel with destruction, or repeating vile stereotypes about Jews, is
deeply wrong and only serves to evoke in the minds of Israelis this most painful of memories
while preventing the peace that the people of this region deserve.
On the other hand, it is also undeniable that the Palestinian people -- Muslims and Christians - has suffered in pursuit of a homeland. For more than 60 years they've endured the pain of
dislocation. Many wait in refugee camps in the West Bank, Gaza, and neighboring lands for a
life of peace and security that they have never been able to lead. They endure the daily
humiliations -- large and small -- that come with occupation. So let there be no doubt: The
situation for the Palestinian people is intolerable. And America will not turn our backs on the
legitimate Palestinian aspiration for dignity, opportunity, and a state of their own.
For decades then, there has been a stalemate: two peoples with legitimate aspirations, each
with a painful history that makes compromise elusive. It's easy to point fingers -- for
Palestinians to point to the displacement brought about by Israel's founding, and for Israelis
to point to the constant hostility and attacks throughout its history from within its borders as
well as beyond. But if we see this conflict only from one side or the other, then we will be
blind to the truth: The only resolution is for the aspirations of both sides to be met through
two states, where Israelis and Palestinians each live in peace and security.
That is in Israel's interest, Palestine's interest, America's interest, and the world's interest.
And that is why I intend to personally pursue this outcome with all the patience and dedication
that the task requires. The obligations -- The obligations that the parties have agreed to under
the road map are clear. For peace to come, it is time for them -- and all of us -- to live up to
our responsibilities.
Palestinians must abandon violence. Resistance through violence and killing is wrong and it
does not succeed. For centuries, black people in America suffered the lash of the whip as
slaves and the humiliation of segregation. But it was not violence that won full and equal
rights. It was a peaceful and determined insistence upon the ideals at the center of America's
founding. This same story can be told by people from South Africa to South Asia; from Eastern
Europe to Indonesia. It's a story with a simple truth: Violence is a dead end. It is a sign

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
neither of courage nor power to shoot rockets at sleeping children, or to blow up old women
on a bus. That's not how moral authority is claimed; that's how it is surrendered.
Now is the time for Palestinians to focus on what they can build. The Palestinian Authority
must develop its capacity to govern, with institutions that serve the needs of its peoples.
Hamas does have support among some Palestinians, but they also have to recognize they
have responsibilities. To play a role in fulfilling Palestinian aspirations, to unify the Palestinian
people, Hamas must put an end to violence, recognize past agreements, recognize Israel's
right to exist.
At the same time, Israelis must acknowledge that just as Israel's right to exist cannot be
denied, neither can Palestine's. The United States does not accept the legitimacy of continued
Israeli settlements. This construction violates previous agreements and undermines efforts to
achieve peace. It is time for these settlements to stop.
And Israel must also live up to its obligation to ensure that Palestinians can live and work and
develop their society. Just as it devastates Palestinian families, the continuing humanitarian
crisis in Gaza does not serve Israel's security; neither does the continuing lack of opportunity
in the West Bank. Progress in the daily lives of the Palestinian people must be a critical part of
a road to peace, and Israel must take concrete steps to enable such progress.
And finally, the Arab states must recognize that the Arab Peace Initiative was an important
beginning, but not the end of their responsibilities. The Arab-Israeli conflict should no longer
be used to distract the people of Arab nations from other problems. Instead, it must be a
cause for action to help the Palestinian people develop the institutions that will sustain their
state, to recognize Israel's legitimacy, and to choose progress over a self-defeating focus on
the past.
America will align our policies with those who pursue peace, and we will say in public what we
say in private to Israelis and Palestinians and Arabs. We cannot impose peace. But privately,
many Muslims recognize that Israel will not go away. Likewise, many Israelis recognize the
need for a Palestinian state. It is time for us to act on what everyone knows to be true.
Too many tears have been shed. Too much blood has been shed. All of us have a
responsibility to work for the day when the mothers of Israelis and Palestinians can see their
children grow up without fear; when the Holy Land of the three great faiths is the place of
peace that God intended it to be; when Jerusalem is a secure and lasting home for Jews and
Christians and Muslims, and a place for all of the children of Abraham to mingle peacefully

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
together as in the story of Isra -- as in the story of Isra, when Moses, Jesus, and Mohammed,
peace be upon them, joined in prayer.
The third source of tension is our shared interest in the rights and responsibilities of nations
on nuclear weapons.
This issue has been a source of tension between the United States and the Islamic Republic of
Iran. For many years, Iran has defined itself in part by its opposition to my country, and there
is in fact a tumultuous history between us. In the middle of the Cold War, the United States
played a role in the overthrow of a democratically elected Iranian government. Since the
Islamic Revolution, Iran has played a role in acts of hostage-taking and violence against U.S.
troops and civilians. This history is well known. Rather than remain trapped in the past, I've
made it clear to Iran's leaders and people that my country is prepared to move forward. The
question now is not what Iran is against, but rather what future it wants to build.
I recognize it will be hard to overcome decades of mistrust, but we will proceed with courage,
rectitude, and resolve. There will be many issues to discuss between our two countries, and
we are willing to move forward without preconditions on the basis of mutual respect. But it is
clear to all concerned that when it comes to nuclear weapons, we have reached a decisive
point. This is not simply about America's interests. It's about preventing a nuclear arms race
in the Middle East that could lead this region and the world down a hugely dangerous path.
I understand those who protest that some countries have weapons that others do not. No
single nation should pick and choose which nation holds nuclear weapons. And that's why I
strongly reaffirmed America's commitment to seek a world in which no nations hold nuclear
weapons. And any nation -- including Iran -- should have the right to access peaceful nuclear
power if it complies with its responsibilities under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That
commitment is at the core of the treaty, and it must be kept for all who fully abide by it. And I
am hopeful that all countries in the region can share in this goal.
The fourth issue that I will address is democracy.
I know -- I know there has been controversy about the promotion of democracy in recent
years, and much of this controversy is connected to the war in Iraq. So let me be clear: No
system of government can or should be imposed by one nation by any other.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
That does not lessen my commitment, however, to governments that reflect the will of the
people. Each nation gives life to this principle in its own way, grounded in the traditions of its
own people. America does not presume to know what is best for everyone, just as we would
not presume to pick the outcome of a peaceful election. But I do have an unyielding belief that
all people yearn for certain things: the ability to speak your mind and have a say in how you
are governed; confidence in the rule of law and the equal administration of justice;
government that is transparent and doesn't steal from the people; the freedom to live as you
choose. These are not just American ideas; they are human rights. And that is why we will
support them everywhere.
Now, there is no straight line to realize this promise. But this much is clear: Governments that
protect these rights are ultimately more stable, successful, and secure. Suppressing ideas
never succeeds in making them go away. America -- America respects the right of all peaceful
and law-abiding voices to be heard around the world, even if we disagree with them. And we
will welcome all elected, peaceful governments -- provided they govern with respect for all
their people.
This last point is important because there are some who advocate for democracy only when
they're out of power. Once in power, they are ruthless in suppressing the rights of others. So
no matter where it takes hold, government of the people and by the people sets a single
standard for all who would hold power: You must maintain your power through consent, not
coercion; you must respect the rights of minorities, and participate with a spirit of tolerance
and compromise; you must place the interests of your people and the legitimate workings of
the political process above your party. Without these ingredients, elections alone do not make
true democracy.
Thank you. The fifth issue that we must address together is religious freedom.
Islam has a proud tradition of tolerance. We see it in the history of Andalusia and Cordoba
during the Inquisition. I saw it firsthand as a child in Indonesia, where devout Christians
worshiped freely in an overwhelmingly Muslim country. That is the spirit we need
today. People in every country should be free to choose and live their faith based upon the
persuasion of the mind and the heart and the soul. This tolerance is essential for religion to
thrive, but it's being challenged in many different ways.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Among some Muslims, there's a disturbing tendency to measure one's own faith by the
rejection of somebody else's faith. The richness of religious diversity must be upheld -whether it is for Maronites in Lebanon or the Copts in Egypt. And if we are being honest, fault
lines must be closed among Muslims, as well, as the divisions between Sunni and Shia have
led to tragic violence, particularly in Iraq.
Freedom of religion is central to the ability of peoples to live together. We must always
examine the ways in which we protect it. For instance, in the United States, rules on
charitable giving have made it harder for Muslims to fulfill their religious obligation. That's why
I'm committed to working with American Muslims to ensure that they can fulfill zakat.
Likewise, it is important for Western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from
practicing religion as they see fit -- for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman
should wear.
We can't disguise hostility towards any religion behind the pretence of liberalism.
In fact, faith should bring us together. And that's why we're forging service projects in
America to bring together Christians, Muslims, and Jews. That's why we welcome efforts like
Saudi Arabian King Abdullah's interfaith dialogue and Turkey's leadership in the Alliance of
Civilizations. Around the world, we can turn dialogue into interfaith service, so bridges
between peoples lead to action -- whether it is combating malaria in Africa, or providing relief
after a natural disaster.
The sixth issue -- The sixth issue that I want to address is women's rights.
I know --- I know -- and you can tell from this audience, that there is a healthy debate about
this issue. I reject the view of some in the West that a woman who chooses to cover her hair
is somehow less equal, but I do believe that a woman who is denied an education is denied
equality. And it is no coincidence that countries where women are well educated are far more
likely to be prosperous. Now, let me be clear: Issues of women's equality are by no means
simply an issue for Islam. In Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Indonesia, we've seen Muslimmajority countries elect a woman to lead. Meanwhile, the struggle for women's equality
continues in many aspects of American life, and in countries around the world.
I am convinced that our daughters can contribute just as much to society as our sons. Our
common prosperity will be advanced by allowing all humanity -- men and women -- to reach
their full potential. I do not believe that women must make the same choices as men in order
to be equal, and I respect those women who choose to live their lives in traditional roles. But

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
it should be their choice. And that is why the United States will partner with any Muslimmajority country to support expanded literacy for girls, and to help young women pursue
employment through micro-financing that helps people live their dreams.
Finally, I want to discuss economic development and opportunity.
I know that for many, the face of globalization is contradictory. The Internet and television
can bring knowledge and information, but also offensive sexuality and mindless violence into
the home. Trade can bring new wealth and opportunities, but also huge disruptions and
change in communities. In all nations -- including America -- this change can bring fear; fear
that because of modernity we lose control over our economic choices, our politics, and most
importantly our identities -- those things we most cherish about our communities, our
families, our traditions, and our faith.
But I also know that human progress cannot be denied. There need not be contradictions
between development and tradition. Countries like Japan and South Korea grew their
economies enormously while maintaining distinct cultures. The same is true for the
astonishing progress within Muslim-majority countries from Kuala Lumpur to Dubai.
In ancient times and in our times, Muslim communities have been at the forefront of
innovation and education.
And this is important because no development strategy can be based only upon what comes
out of the ground, nor can it be sustained while young people are out of work. Many Gulf
states have enjoyed great wealth as a consequence of oil, and some are beginning to focus it
on broader development. But all of us must recognize that education and innovation will be
the currency of the 21st century -- and in too -- and in too many Muslim communities, there
remains underinvestment in these areas. I'm emphasizing such investment within my own
country. And while America in the past has focused on oil and gas when it comes to this part
of the world, we now seek a broader engagement.
On education, we will expand exchange programs, and increase scholarships, like the one that
brought my father to America. At the same time, we will encourage more Americans to study
in Muslim communities. And we will match promising Muslim students with internships in
America, invest in online learning for teachers and children around the world, and create a
new online network, so a young person in Kansas can communicate instantly with a young
person in Cairo.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
On economic development, we will create a new corps of business volunteers to partner with
counterparts in Muslim-majority countries. And I will host a summit on entrepreneurship this
year to identify how we can deepen ties between business leaders, foundations, and social
entrepreneurs in the United States and Muslim communities around the world.
On science and technology, we will launch a new fund to support technological development in
Muslim-majority countries, and to help transfer ideas to -- to the marketplace so they can
create more jobs. We'll open centers of scientific excellence in Africa, the Middle East and
Southeast Asia, and appoint new science envoys to collaborate on programs that develop new
sources of energy, create green jobs, digitize records, clean water, grow new crops.
Today I'm announcing a new global effort with the Organization of the Islamic Conference to
eradicate polio. And we will also expand partnerships with Muslim communities to promote
child and maternal health.
All these things must be done in partnership. Americans are ready to join with citizens and
governments; community organizations, religious leaders, and businesses in Muslim
communities around the world to help our people pursue a better life.
Now the issues that I have described will not be easy to address. But we have a responsibility
to join together on behalf of the world that we seek -- a world where extremists no longer
threaten our people, and American troops have come home; a world where Israelis and
Palestinians are each secure in a state of their own, and nuclear energy is used for peaceful
purposes; a world where governments serve their citizens, and the rights of all God's children
are respected. Those are mutual interests. That is the world we seek. But we can only achieve
it together.
I know there are many, Muslim and non-Muslim, who question whether we can forge this new
beginning. Some are eager to stoke the flames of division, and to stand in the way of
progress. Some suggest that it isn't worth the effort -- that we are fated to disagree, and
civilizations are doomed to clash. Many more are simply skeptical that real change can
occur. There's so much fear, so much mistrust that has built up over the years. But if we
choose to be bound by the past, we will never move forward.
And I want to particularly say this to young people of every faith, in every country: You, more
than anyone, have the ability to reimagine the world, to remake this world. All of us share this
world for but a brief moment in time. The question is whether we spend that time focused on
what pushes us apart, or whether we commit ourselves to an effort -- a sustained effort -- to

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
find common ground, to focus on the future we seek for our children, and to respect the
dignity of all human beings.
It's easier to start wars than to end them. It's easier to blame others than to look inward. It's
easier to see what is different about someone than to find the things we share. But we should
choose the right path, not just the easy path. There's one rule that lies at the heart of every
religion -- that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us. This truth transcends
nations and peoples -- a belief that isn't new; that isn't black or white or brown; that isn't
Christian or Muslim or Jew. It's a belief that pulsed in the cradle of civilization, and that still
beats in the hearts of billions around the world. It's a faith in other people, and it's what
brought me here today.
We have the power to make the world we seek, but only if we have the courage to make a
new beginning, keeping in mind what has been written.
The Holy Qur’an tells us: "O mankind! We have created you male and a female; and we have
made you into nations and tribes so that you may know one another."
The Talmud tells us: "The whole of the Torah is for the purpose of promoting peace."
The Holy Bible tells us: "Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God."
The people of the world can live together in peace. We know that is God's vision. Now that
must be our work here on Earth.
Thank you. And may God's peace be upon you. Thank you very much. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/28/21

Page 14
</doc>
<doc id="file32329530" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Candidate_Exploratory_Announcement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Candidate%20Exploratory%20Announcement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Presidential Exploratory Committee Announcement
Uploaded to YouTube 16 January 2007

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

As many of you know, over the last few months I've been thinking hard about my plans for
2008. Running for the presidency is a profound decision -- a decision no one should make on
the basis of media hype or personal ambition alone -- and so before I committed myself and
my family to this race, I wanted to be sure that this was right for us and, more importantly,
right for the country.
I certainly didn't expect to find myself in this position a year ago. But as I've spoken to many
of you in my travels across the states these past months, as I've read your emails and read
your letters, I've been struck by how hungry we all are for a different kind of politics. So I've
spent some time thinking about how I could best advance the cause of change and progress
that we so desperately need.
The decisions that have been made in Washington these past six years, and the problems that
have been ignored, have put our country in a precarious place. Our economy is changing
rapidly, and that means profound changes for working people. Many of you have shared with
me your stories about skyrocketing health care bills, the pensions you've lost and your

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Unknown

Updated 1/7/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
struggles to pay for college for your kids. Our continued dependence on oil has put our
security and our very planet at risk. And we're still mired in a tragic and costly war that should
have never been waged.
But challenging as they are, it's not the magnitude of our problems that concerns me the
most. It's the smallness of our politics. America's faced big problems before. But today, our
leaders in Washington seem incapable of working together in a practical, common sense way.
Politics has become so bitter and partisan, so gummed up by money and influence, that we
can't tackle the big problems that demand solutions. And that's what we have to change first.
We have to change our politics, and come together around our common interests and
concerns as Americans.
This won't happen by itself. A change in our politics can only come from you -- from people
across our country who believe there's a better way and are willing to work for it. Years ago,
as a community organizer in Chicago, I learned that meaningful change always begins at the
grassroots, and that engaged citizens working together can accomplish extraordinary things.
So even in the midst of the enormous challenges we face today, I have great faith and hope
about the future -- because I believe in you.
And that's why I wanted to tell you first that I'll be filing papers today to create a presidential
exploratory committee. For the next several weeks, I'm going to talk with people from around
the country, listening and learning more about the challenges we face as a nation, the
opportunities that lie before us, and the role that a presidential campaign might play in
bringing our country together. And on February 10th, at the end of these discussions and in
my home state of Illinois, I'll share my plans with my friends, neighbors, and fellow
Americans.
In the meantime, I want to thank all of you for your time, your suggestions, your
encouragement, and your prayers. And I look forward to continuing our conversation in the
weeks and months to come.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Unknown

Updated 1/7/22

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329821" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Carnegie_Mellon_Economy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Carnegie%20Mellon%20Economy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at Carnegie Mellon University on the State of the Economy

Delivered 2 June 2010, Pittsburgh, PA

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much.
Let me begin by thanking Dr. Jared Cohon, and the entire Carnegie Mellon community, for
welcoming me once again, and for the terrific work that he and the administration, faculty and
staff do here each and every day.
I also want to acknowledge your outstanding mayor -- who doesn’t look any older than the
last time I saw him -- Mayor Luke Ravenstahl. There he is, right there.
It is great to be back at Carnegie Mellon, and in the beautiful city of Pittsburgh. I love visiting
a good sports town. Last year, I stole Dan Rooney to serve as my ambassador to Ireland. To
make it up, I invited both the Steelers and the Penguins to the White House to celebrate their
championships. Seeing how the Blackhawks are headed to Philly tonight with a 2-0 lead in
the Stanley Cup Finals, I'm just glad that we're on this side of the state.
I noticed a couple of people said they were rooting for the Blackhawks, which tells me
something about the rivalry between Pittsburgh and Philly.
Of course, we meet here at an incredibly difficult time for America. Among other things, it’s a
time when the worst environmental disaster of its kind in our nation’s history is threatening
the Gulf Coast and the people who live there. Right now, stopping this oil spill and containing
its damage is necessarily the top priority not just of my Administration but I think of the entire
country. And we’re waging this battle every minute of every day.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But at the same time, we’re continuing our efforts to recover and rebuild from an economic
disaster that has touched the lives of nearly every American. That’s what I want to talk about
today -- the state of our economy, the future we must seize, and the path we chose to get
there.
It has now been a little over 16 months since I took office amid one of the worst economic
storms in our history. And to navigate that storm, my Administration was forced to take some
dramatic and unpopular steps. These steps have succeeded in breaking the freefall. We’re
again moving in the right direction.
An economy that was shrinking at an alarming rate when I became President has now been
growing for three consecutive quarters. After losing an average of 750,000 jobs a month
during the winter of last year, we’ve now added jobs for five of the last six months, and we
expect to see strong job growth in Friday’s report. The taxpayer money it cost to shore up
the financial sector and the auto industry, that's being repaid. And both GM and Chrysler are
adding shifts and operating at a profit. So, despite temporary setbacks, uncertain world
events, and the resulting ups and downs of the market, this economy is getting stronger by
the day.
Now, that doesn’t mean this recession is by any means over for the millions of Americans who
are still looking for a job or a way to pay the bills. Not by a long shot. The devastation
created by the deepest downturn since the Great Depression has hit people and communities
across our country very hard. And it’s not going to be a real recovery until people can feel it
in their own lives.
In the immediate future, this means doing whatever is necessary to keep the recovery going
and to spur job growth. But in the long term, it means recognizing that for a lot of middleclass families -- for entire communities, in some case -- a sense of economic security has
been missing since long before the recession began.
Over the last decade, these families saw their income decline. They saw the cost of things
like health care and college tuition reach record highs. They lived through a so-called
economic “expansion” that generated slower job growth than at any prior expansion since
World War II. Some people have called the last 10 years “the lost decade.”
So the anxiety that’s out there today isn’t new. The recession has certainly made it worse,
but that feeling of not being in control of your own economic future -- that sense that the
American Dream might slowly be slipping away -- that’s been around for some time now. And
for better or for worse, our generation of Americans has been buffeted by tremendous forces
of economic change. Long gone are the days when a high school diploma could guarantee a
job at a local factory -- not when so many of those factories had moved overseas. Pittsburgh,
a city that once was defined by the steel industry, knows this better than just about anybody.
And today, the ability of jobs and entire industries to relocate where there’s skilled workers
and an Internet connection has forced America to compete like never before.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
From China to India to Europe, other nations have already realized this. They’re putting a
greater emphasis on math and science, and demanding more from their students. Some
countries are building high-speed railroads and expanding broadband access. They’re making
serious investments in technology and clean energy because they want to win the competition
for those jobs.
So we can’t afford to stand pat while the world races by. The United States of America did not
become the most prosperous nation on Earth by sheer luck or happenstance. We got here
because each time a generation of Americans has faced a changing world, we have changed
with it. We have not feared our future; we have shaped it. America does not stand still; we
move forward.
And that's why I’ve said that as we emerge from this recession, we can’t afford to return to
the pre-crisis status quo. We can’t go back to an economy that was too dependent on bubbles
and debt and financial speculation. We can’t accept economic growth that leaves the middle
class owing more and making less. We have to build a new and stronger foundation for
growth and prosperity -- and that’s exactly what we’ve been doing for the last 16 months.
It’s a foundation based on investments in our people and their future; investments in the skills
and education we need to compete; investments in a 21st century infrastructure for America,
from high-speed railroads to high-speed Internet; investments in research and technology,
like clean energy, that can lead to new jobs and new exports and new industries.
This new foundation is also based on reforms that will make our economy stronger and our
businesses more competitive -- reforms that will make health care cheaper, our financial
system more secure, and our government less burdened with debt.
In a global economy, we can’t pursue this agenda in a vacuum. At the height of the financial
crisis, the coordinated action we took with the nations of the G20 prevented a global
depression and helped restore worldwide growth. And as we’ve recently witnessed in Europe,
economic difficulties in one part of the world can affect everybody else. And that’s why we
have to keep on working with the nations of the G20 to pursue more balanced growth. That’s
why we need to coordinate financial reform with other nations so that we avoid a global race
to the bottom. It’s why we need to open new markets and meet the goal of my National
Export Initiative: to double our exports over the next five years. And it’s why we need to
ensure that our competitors play fair and our agreements are enforced. This, too, is part of
building a new foundation.
Now, some of you may have noticed that we have been building this foundation without much
help from our friends in the other party. From our efforts to rescue the economy, to health
insurance reform, to financial reform, most have sat on the sidelines and shouted from the
bleachers. They said no to tax cuts for small businesses; no to tax credits for college tuition;
no to investments in clean energy. They said no to protecting patients from insurance
companies and consumers from big banks.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And some of this, of course, is just politics. Before I was even inaugurated, the congressional
leaders of the other party got together and made a calculation that if I failed, they’d win. So
when I went to meet with them about the need for a Recovery Act, in the midst of crisis, they
announced they were against it before I even arrived at the meeting. Before we even had a
health care bill, a Republican senator actually said, “If we’re able to stop Obama on this, it will
be his Waterloo. It will break him.” So those weren’t very hopeful signs.
But to be fair, a good deal of the other party’s opposition to our agenda has also been rooted
in their sincere and fundamental belief about the role of government. It’s a belief that
government has little or no role to play in helping this nation meet our collective challenges.
It’s an agenda that basically offers two answers to every problem we face: more tax breaks
for the wealthy and fewer rules for corporations.
The last Administration called this recycled idea “the Ownership Society.” But what it
essentially means is that everyone is on their own. No matter how hard you work, if your
paycheck isn’t enough to pay for college or health care or childcare, well, you’re on your own.
If misfortune causes you to lose your job or your home, you’re on your own. And if you’re a
Wall Street bank or an insurance company or an oil company, you pretty much get to play by
your own rules, regardless of the consequences for everybody else.
Now, I’ve never believed that government has all the answers. Government cannot and
should not replace businesses as the true engine of growth and job creation. Government
can’t instill good values and a sense of responsibility in our children. That's a parent’s job.
Too much government can deprive us of choice and burden us with debt. Poorly designed
regulations can choke off competition and the capital that businesses need to thrive.
I understand these arguments. And it’s reflected in my policies. After all, one-third of the
Recovery Act we designed was made up of tax cuts for families and small businesses. And
when you think back to the health care debate, despite calls for a single-payer, governmentrun health care plan, we passed reform that maintains our system of private health insurance.
But I also understand that throughout our nation’s history, we have balanced the threat of
overreaching government against the dangers of an unfettered market. We've provided a
basic safety net, because any one of us might experience hardship at some time in our lives
and may need some help getting back on our feet. And we've recognized that there have
been times when only government has been able to do what individuals couldn't do and
corporations wouldn't do.
That's how we have railroads and highways, public schools and police forces. That's how
we've made possible scientific research that has led to medical breakthroughs like the vaccine
for Hepatitis B, and technological wonders like GPS. That's how we have Social Security and a
minimum wage, and laws to protect the food we eat and the water we drink and the air that
we breathe. That’s how we have rules to ensure that mines are safe and, yes, that oil
companies pay for the spills that they cause.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, there have always been those who’ve said no to such protections; no to such
investments. There were accusations that Social Security would lead to socialism, and that
Medicare was a government takeover. There were bankers who claimed the creation of
federal deposit insurance would destroy the industry. And there were automakers who argued
that installing seatbelts was unnecessary and unaffordable. There were skeptics who thought
that cleaning our water and our air would bankrupt our entire economy. And all of these
claims proved false. All of these reforms led to greater security and greater prosperity for our
people and our economy.
So what was true then is true today. As November approaches, leaders in the other party will
campaign furiously on the same economic arguments they’ve been making for decades.
Fortunately, we don't have to look back too many years to see how their agenda turns out.
For much of the last 10 years we've tried it their way. They gave us tax cuts that weren’t paid
for to millionaires who didn’t need them. They gutted regulations and put industry insiders in
charge of industry oversight. They shortchanged investments in clean energy and education,
in research and technology. And despite all their current moralizing about the need to curb
spending, this is the same crowd who took the record $237 billion surplus that President
Clinton left them and turned it into a record $1.3 trillion deficit.
So we know where those ideas lead us. And now we have a choice as a nation. We can
return to the failed economic policies of the past, or we can keep building a stronger future.
We can go backward, or we can keep moving forward. And I don't know about you, but I
want to move forward. I think America wants to move forward.
Now, the first step in building a new foundation that allows us to move forward has been to
address the costs and risks that have made our economy less competitive -- outdated
regulations, crushing health care costs, and a growing debt.
To start with, we can't compete as a nation if the irresponsibility of a few folks on Wall Street
can bring our entire economy to its knees. That's why we're on the verge of passing the most
sweeping financial reform since the Great Depression. It’s a reform that will help prevent
another AIG. It will end taxpayer-funded bank bailouts. It contains the strongest consumer
protections in history -- protections that will empower Americans with the clear and concise
information they need before signing up for a credit card or taking out a mortgage.
Financial reform will not guard against every instance of greed and irresponsibility on Wall
Street. But it will enshrine a new principle in our financial system: From now on, instead of
competing to see who can come up with the cleverest scheme to make the quickest buck,
financial institutions will compete to see who can make the better product and the better
service. And that's a competition that benefits Wall Street and Main Street. That’s why we
need to get this legislation done. It’s why we can’t afford to go back; we have to move
forward.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We also know we can’t compete in a global economy if our citizens are forced to spend more
and more of their income on medical bills; if our businesses are forced to choose between
health care and hiring; if state and federal budgets are weighed down with skyrocketing
health care costs. That’s why we finally passed health insurance reform.
Now, let’s be clear. The costs of health care are not going to come down overnight just
because legislation passed, and in an ever-changing industry like health care, we’re going to
continuously need to apply more cost-cutting measures as the years go by. But once this
reform is in full effect, middle-class families will pay less for their health care, and the worst
practices of the insurance industry will end. People with preexisting medical conditions will no
longer be excluded from coverage. People who become seriously ill will no longer be thrown
off their coverage for reasons contrived by the insurance company. Taxpayers will no longer
have to pay -- in the form of higher premiums -- for trips to the ER by uninsured Americans.
Businesses will get help with their health care costs. In fact, small businesses are already
learning they’re eligible for tax credits to cover their workers this year. And with less waste
and greater efficiency in the system, this reform will do more to bring down the deficit than
any step we have taken in more than a decade.
The other party has staked their claim this November on repealing these health insurance
reforms instead of making them work. They want to go back. We need to move forward.
Making health care more cost-efficient is critical, because it’s also true that we cannot be
competitive as a nation if we remain dragged down by our growing debt. So let me talk about
debt just for a second.
By the time I took office, we had a one-year deficit of over $1 trillion and projected deficits of
$8 trillion over the next decade. Most of this was the result of not paying for two major tax
cuts skewed to the wealthy, and a worthy but expensive prescription drug program that
wasn’t paid for. I always find it interesting that the same people who participated in these
decisions are the ones who now charge our Administration with fiscal irresponsibility.
And the truth is if I had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked nothing more than
to start bringing down the deficits that they created. But we took office amid a crisis, and the
effects of the recession put a $3 trillion hole in our budget before I even walked through the
door. Additionally, the steps that we had to take to save the economy from depression
temporarily added more to the deficit -- by about $1 trillion. Of course, if we had spiraled into
a depression, our deficits and debt levels would be much worse.
Now, the economy is still fragile, so we can’t put on the brakes too quickly. We have to do
what it takes to ensure a strong recovery. A growing economy will unquestionably improve
our fiscal health, as will the steps we take in the short-term to put Americans back to work.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that’s why I signed a bill that will provide tax cuts for small businesses that hire
unemployed workers. That's why I’ve urged Congress to pass a small business lending fund
so that small businesses can get the credit they need to create jobs and grow. That's why I
believe it’s critical we extend unemployment insurance for several more months, so that
Americans who’ve been laid off through no fault of their own get the support they need to
provide for their families and can maintain their health insurance until they’re rehired. And
we have to work with state and local governments to make sure they have the resources to
prevent the likely layoffs of hundreds of thousands of public school teachers across the
country over the next few months.
But as we look ahead, we can’t lose sight of the urgent need to get our fiscal house in order.
There are four key components to putting our budget on a sustainable path. Maintaining
economic growth is number one. Health care reform is number two. The third component is
the belt-tightening steps I’ve already outlined to reduce our deficit by $1 trillion.
Starting in 2011, we will enact a three-year freeze on all discretionary spending outside of
national security -- something that was never enacted in the last Administration. We will
allow the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans to expire. We’ve gone through the budget,
line by line, and identified more than 120 programs for elimination. We’ve restored a simple
budgeting rule that every family and business understands called pay-as-you-go. And we will
charge the largest Wall Street firms a fee to repay the American people for rescuing them
during the financial crisis -- a fee that will bring down the deficit by $90 billion -- a fee that
will bring down the deficit by $90 billion over the next decade. By the way, that $90 billion
represents about one-eighth of the amount these banks will pay out in bonuses over the same
time period in time.
Now, finally, the fourth component in improving our fiscal health is the bipartisan Fiscal
Commission that I’ve established that will provide a specific set of solutions by the fall to deal
with our medium- and long-term deficit. And I have to warn you this will not be easy. I know
that some like to make the argument that if we would just eliminate pork barrel projects and
foreign aid, we could eliminate our deficit. Turns out such spending makes up just 3 percent
of our deficit. You combine all foreign aid and all earmarks -- that’s 3 percent of our budget.
So meeting the deficit challenge will require some very difficult decisions about the largely
popular programs that make up the other 97 percent. It means we’ll have to sort through our
priorities and figure out what programs that we can do without.
On this point, I strongly agree with my friends in the other party. What I don’t agree with is
the notion that we should also sacrifice critical investments in our people and our future. You
know, if you’re a family who’s tightening your belt, you will definitely sacrifice going out to
dinner, but you’re not going to sacrifice saving for your child’s college education. It’s precisely
our investments in education and innovation that will make America more competitive in the
21st century. And we can’t go back; we’ve got to move forward.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s why I’ve made education reform a top priority -- because countries that out-educate us
today will out-compete us tomorrow. And so we want every citizen to have the skills and
training they need in a global economy -- from the day that you’re born through whatever
career you may choose.
Last year, we launched a national competition to improve our schools based on a simple idea:
Instead of funding the status quo, we will only invest in reform -- reform that raises student
achievement, that inspires students to excel in math and science, and turns around failing
schools that steal the future of too many young Americans.
And to achieve my goal of ensuring America once more has the highest proportion of college
graduates in the world by 2020, we passed a law that will make college more affordable by
ending the unnecessary taxpayer subsidies that go to financial institutions for student loans.
That means we’re saving billions of dollars that will go directly to students, including students
right here at Carnegie Mellon.
It’s a bill that will also revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the
children of so many working families.
In addition to training our workers for the jobs of the future, we’re also investing in the
innovation that will create those jobs here in America -- the research, the technology, the
infrastructure that will secure our economic future.
Right now, as we speak, the Recovery Act is putting Americans to work building a 21st
century America. There’s no reason China should have the fastest trains or that rural
Pennsylvania should be without high-speed Internet access. We’ve got to make those
investments. From the first railroads to the Interstate Highway System, this nation has
always been built to compete. So we’re going to invest, and are investing right now, in new
infrastructure -- expanding broadband, health information technology, advanced
manufacturing facilities, America’s first high-speed rail network. We’re also investing in the
ideas and technologies that will lead to new jobs and entire new industries.
Consider what we’ve done with clean energy. The tax credits and loan guarantees in the
Recovery Act alone will lead to 720,000 clean energy jobs in America by 2012 -- 720,000. I’ll
give you one example. The United States used to make less than 2 percent of the world’s
advanced batteries for hybrid cars. By 2015, because of the investments that we made, we’ll
have enough capacity to make up to 40 percent of these batteries.
Now, this brings me to an issue that’s on everybody’s minds right now -- namely, what kind of
energy future can ensure our long-term prosperity. The catastrophe unfolding in the Gulf
right now may prove to be a result of human error, or of corporations taking dangerous
shortcuts to compromise safety, or a combination of both. And I’ve launched a National
Commission so that the American people will have answers on exactly what happened.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
But we have to acknowledge that there are inherent risks to drilling four miles beneath the
surface of the Earth, and these are risks -- these are risks that are bound to increase the
harder oil extraction becomes. We also have to acknowledge that an America run solely on
fossil fuels should not be the vision we have for our children and our grandchildren.
We consume more than 20 percent of the world’s oil, but have less than 2 percent of the
world’s oil reserves. So without a major change in our energy policy, our dependence on oil
means that we will continue to send billions of dollars of our hard-earned wealth to other
countries every month -- including countries in dangerous and unstable regions. In other
words, our continued dependence on fossil fuels will jeopardize our national security. It will
smother our planet. And it will continue to put our economy and our environment at risk.
Now, I understand that we can’t end our dependence on fossil fuels overnight. That’s why I
supported a careful plan of offshore oil production as one part of our overall energy strategy.
But we can pursue such production only if it’s safe, and only if it’s used as a short-term
solution while we transition to a clean energy economy.
And the time has come to aggressively accelerate that transition. The time has come, once
and for all, for this nation to fully embrace a clean energy future. Now, that means continuing
our unprecedented effort to make everything from our homes and businesses to our cars and
trucks more energy-efficient. It means tapping into our natural gas reserves, and moving
ahead with our plan to expand our nation’s fleet of nuclear power plants. It means rolling
back billions of dollars of tax breaks to oil companies so we can prioritize investments in clean
energy research and development.
But the only way the transition to clean energy will ultimately succeed is if the private sector
is fully invested in this future -- if capital comes off the sidelines and the ingenuity of our
entrepreneurs is unleashed. And the only way to do that is by finally putting a price on
carbon pollution.
No, many businesses have already embraced this idea because it provides a level of certainty
about the future. And for those that face transition costs, we can help them adjust. But if we
refuse to take into account the full costs of our fossil fuel addiction -- if we don’t factor in the
environmental costs and the national security costs and the true economic costs -- we will
have missed our best chance to seize a clean energy future.
The House of Representatives has already passed a comprehensive energy and climate bill,
and there is currently a plan in the Senate -- a plan that was developed with ideas from
Democrats and Republicans -- that would achieve the same goal. And, Pittsburgh, I want you
to know, the votes may not be there right now, but I intend to find them in the coming
months. I will continue to make the case for a clean energy future wherever and whenever I
can. I will work with anyone to get this done -- and we will get it done.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
The next generation will not be held hostage to energy sources from the last century. We are
not going to move backwards. We are going to move forward.
This overarching principle -- that we must invest in and embrace the innovation and
technology of the future and not the past -- that applies beyond our energy policy. That’s
why we’ve decided to devote more than 3 percent of our GDP to research and development -to spur the discovery of services and products and businesses that we have yet to imagine.
We’ve proposed making the research and experimentation tax credit permanent -- a tax credit
that helps businesses afford the high costs of developing new technologies and new products.
Last year, we made the largest investment in basic research funding in history.
The possibilities of where this research might lead are endless. Imagine a new treatment that
kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched; regenerative medicine that ends the
agonizing wait for an organ transplant. Imagine a lightweight vest for soldiers and police
officers that can stop armor-piercing bullets; educational software that’s as effective and
engaging as a personal tutor; intelligent prosthetics that can enable a wounded veteran to
play the piano again. And now imagine all the workers and small business owners and
consumers who would benefit from these discoveries.
We can’t know for certain what the future will bring. We can’t guess with 100 percent
accuracy what industries and innovations will next shape our world. I’m sure there were
times when this city couldn’t imagine life without steel mills and heavy smog that filled these
streets. And when that industry shrank and so many jobs were lost, who could have guessed
that Pittsburgh would fare better than many other Rust Belt cities, and reemerge as a center
for technology and green jobs, health care, and education? Who would have thought that the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center’s logo would one day adorn the U.S. Steel Tower, or
that this institute -- Carnegie Mellon -- would be the region’s largest employer?
All of this came to be because as a community, you prepared and adapted and invested in a
better future -- even if you weren’t always sure what that future would look like.
And that’s what America does. That’s what we’ve always done. The interests of the status
quo will always have the most vocal and powerful defenders at every level of government.
There will always be lobbyists for the banks or the insurance industry that doesn’t want more
regulation; or the corporation that would prefer to see more tax breaks instead of more
investments in infrastructure or education. And let’s face it -- a lot of us find the prospect of
change scary, even when we know the status quo isn’t working for us.
But there’s no natural lobby for the clean energy company that may start a few years from
now.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
There’s no natural lobby for the research that may lead to a lifesaving medical breakthrough.
There’s no natural lobby for the student who may not be able to afford a college education,
but if they got one could end up making discoveries that would transform America and the
world.
It’s our job as a nation to advocate on behalf of the America that we hope for -- to make
decisions that will benefit the next generation -- even if it’s not always popular; even if we
can’t always see those benefits in the short-term. We make decisions like this on behalf of
our own children every single day. And while it’s harder to do with an entire country as large
and diverse as ours, it’s no less important.
The role of government has never been to plan every detail or dictate every outcome. At its
best, government has simply knocked away barriers to opportunity and laid the foundation for
a better future. Our people -- with all their drive and ingenuity -- always end up building the
rest. And if we can do that again -- if we can continue building that foundation and making
those hard decisions on behalf of the next generation -- I have no doubt that we will leave our
children the America that we all hope for.
Thank you, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329956" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Carnegie_Robotics_Center.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Carnegie%20Robotics%20Center.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at the National Robotics Engineering Center

Delivered 24 June 2011, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, hello, hello! Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you. Hello,
Pittsburgh! It is good to be back. Thank you, Senator Casey, and Mayor Ravenstahl, County
Executive Dan Onorato, State Auditor Jack Wagner, and all of you for having me back here at
Carnegie Mellon. It is good to be here.
And it seems like every time I'm here I learn something. So, for those of you who are thinking
about Carnegie Mellon, it's a terrific place, and you guys are doing just great work.
I just met with folks from some cutting-edge companies and saw some of their inventions
here in your National Robotics Engineering Center. But that’s not the only reason I’m here.
You might not know this, but one of my responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief is to keep an
eye on robots. And I’m pleased to report that the robots you manufacture here seem peaceful
-- at least for now.
This is a city that knows something about manufacturing. For generations of Americans, it was
the ticket to a middle-class life. Here and across America's industrial heartland, millions
clocked in each day at foundries and on assembly lines to make things. And the stuff we made
-- steel, cars, planes -- was the stuff that made America what it is. The jobs were good. They
paid enough to own a home, to raise kids, send them to college, to retire. They were jobs that
told us something more important than just how much money we made, what was in our
paycheck. These jobs also told us that we were meeting our responsibilities to our family and
to our neighborhoods, and building our communities, and building our country.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But for better and worse, our generation has been pounded by wave after wave of profound
economic change. Revolutions in technology have transformed the way we live and the way
we work. Businesses and industries can relocate anywhere in the world, anywhere that there
are skilled workers, anywhere that there is an Internet connection. And companies have
learned to become more efficient with fewer employees. In Pittsburgh, you know this as well
as anybody -- steel mills that once needed a thousand workers now do the same work with a
hundred.
And while these changes have resulted in great wealth for some Americans and have
drastically increased productivity, they’ve also caused major disruptions for many others.
Today, a high school diploma no longer guarantees you a job. Over the past 13 years, about a
third of our manufacturing jobs have vanished. And meanwhile, the typical worker’s wages
have barely kept up with the rising costs of everything else. And all this was even before a
financial crisis and recession that pounded the middle class even more.
Now, we’ve made some tough decisions that have turned our economy in a positive direction
over the past two years. We’ve created more than 2 million new jobs in the private sector
over the past 15 months alone, including almost 250,000 in manufacturing. But we still have
to confront those underlying problems. They weren’t caused overnight, and we won’t solve
them overnight. But we will solve them. And we’re starting to solve them right here in
Pittsburgh, and right here at Carnegie Mellon.
And by the way, that’s why I ran for President. Not just to get us back to where we were -- I
ran for President to get us to where we need to be. I have a larger vision for America -- one
where working families feel secure, feel like they are moving forward and that they know that
their dreams are within reach; an America where our businesses lead the world in new
technologies like clean energy; where we work together, Democrats and Republicans, to live
within our means, to cut our deficit and debt, but also to invest in what our economy needs to
grow -- world-class education, cutting-edge research, and building the best transportation and
communication infrastructure anywhere in the world. That’s what it’s going to take for us to
win the future. And winning the future begins with getting our economy moving right now.
And that’s why we’re here. Carnegie Mellon is a great example of what it means to move
forward. At its founding, no one would have imagined that a trade school for the sons and
daughters of steelworkers would one day become the region’s largest -- one of the region’s
largest employers and a global research university. And yet, innovations led by your
professors and your students have created more than 300 companies and 9,000 jobs over the
past 15 years -- companies like Carnegie Robotics.
But more important than the ideas that you’ve incubated are what those ideas have become:
They’ve become products made right here in America and, in many cases, sold all over the
world. And that's in our blood. That's who we are. We are inventors, and we are makers, and
we are doers.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
If we want a robust, growing economy, we need a robust, growing manufacturing sector.
That’s why we told the auto industry two years ago that if they were willing to adapt, we’d
stand by them. Today, they’re profitable, they’re creating jobs, and they’re repaying
taxpayers ahead of schedule.
That's why we’ve launched a partnership to retrain workers with new skills. That’s why we’ve
invested in clean energy manufacturing and new jobs building wind turbines and solar panels
and advanced batteries. We have not run out of stuff to make. We’ve just got to reinvigorate
our manufacturing sector so that it leads the world the way it always has -- from paper and
steel and cars to new products that we haven’t even dreamed up yet. That’s how we’re going
to strengthen existing industries; that's how we’re going to spark new ones. That’s how we’re
going to create jobs, grow the middle class, and secure our economic leadership.
And this is why I asked my Council of Advisors on Science and Technology -- what we call
PCAST -- a while back to look at the state of American manufacturing and the promise of
advanced manufacturing. The concept of advanced manufacturing is not complicated. It
means how do we do things better, faster, cheaper to design and manufacture superior
products that allow us to compete all over the world.
And so these very smart folks, many of whom are represented here, wrote up a report which
is now up on the White House website. But we didn't want to just issue a report, we wanted to
actually get something done. So we’ve launched an all-hands-on-deck effort between our
brightest academic minds, some of our boldest business leaders, and our most dedicated
public servants from science and technology agencies, all with one big goal, and that is a
renaissance of American manufacturing.
We’re calling it AMP, A-M-P -- the Advanced Manufacturing Partnership. It’s made up of some
of the most advanced engineering universities, like Carnegie Mellon, Georgia Tech, Stanford,
Berkeley, Michigan; some of our most innovative manufacturers, from Johnson & Johnson to
Honeywell, Stryker to Allegheny Technologies. I’ve asked Susan Hockfield, the President of
MIT, who is here -- there’s Susan -- and Andrew Liveris, the CEO of Dow Chemical -- to lead
this partnership, and to work with my own advisors on science, technology and
manufacturing.
Throughout our history, our greatest breakthroughs have often come from partnerships just
like this one. American innovation has always been sparked by individual scientists and
entrepreneurs, often at universities like Carnegie Mellon or Georgia Tech or Berkeley or
Stanford. But a lot of companies don’t invest in early ideas because it won’t pay off right
away. And that’s where government can step in. That’s how we ended up with some of the
world-changing innovations that fueled our growth and prosperity and created countless jobs - the mobile phone, the Internet, GPS, more than 150 drugs and vaccines over the last 40
years was all because we were able to, in strategic ways, bring people together and make
some critical investments.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’ll take one example. The National Science Foundation helped fund Stanford’s Digital Library
Project in the 1990s. The idea was to develop a universal digital library that anybody could
access. So two enterprising Ph.D. students got excited about the research that was being
done at Stanford -- this is funded by NSF. So these two Ph.D. students, they moved from
campus to a friend’s garage, and they launched this company called Google. And when the
private sector runs with the ball, it then leads to jobs, building and selling, that is successful
all over the world.
This new partnership that we’ve created will make sure tomorrow’s breakthroughs are
American breakthroughs. We’re teaming up to foster the kind of collaborative R&D that
resulted in those same early discoveries, and to create the kind of innovation infrastructure
necessary to get ideas from the drawing board to the manufacturing floor to the market more
rapidly -- all of which will make our businesses more competitive and create new, high-quality
manufacturing jobs.
Now, to help businesses operate at less cost, the Energy Department will develop new
manufacturing processes and materials that use half as much energy. That will free up more
money for companies to hire new workers or buy new equipment.
To help businesses discover, develop, and deploy new materials twice as fast, we’re launching
what we call the Materials Genome Initiative. The invention of silicon circuits and lithium-ion
batteries made computers and iPods and iPads possible -- but it took years to get those
technologies from the drawing board to the marketplace. We can do it faster.
To help everyone from factory workers to astronauts carry out more complicated tasks, NASA
and other agencies will support research into next-generation robotics. And I just met with
folks from a local company, RedZone Robotics, who make robots that explore water and sewer
pipes. And I have to say, it is fascinating stuff, when you watch -- the robot is about this big.
It can go through any sewer system. It’s operated remotely by the municipal worker. It’s got
a camera attached so it can film everything that it’s seeing. It then transmits the data. It goes
into a citywide database, and can enhance the productivity of these workers by three or
fourfold, and help the city make even better decisions. Potentially this can save cities millions
in infrastructure costs. Companies also are training new workers to operate the robots, and
analysts to pore through the data that’s being collected.
To help smaller manufacturers compete, federal agencies are working with private companies
to make powerful, often unaffordable modeling and simulation software easier to access. And
I just saw an example. A few years ago, Procter & Gamble teamed up with the researchers at
Los Alamos National Labs to adapt software developed for war to figure out what’s happening
with nuclear particles, and they are using these simulators to dramatically boost the
performance of diapers. Yes, diapers. Folks chuckle, but those who’ve been parents -- are
always on the lookout for indestructible, military-grade diapers.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
But here’s what’s remarkable: Using this simulation software that was developed at Los
Alamos, Procter & Gamble has saved 500 million dollars -- half a billion dollars -- as a
consequence of this simulator. Now, through the new partnership that we’re setting up,
Procter & Gamble is offering its powerful fluid dynamics simulator to smaller manufacturers,
and it’s doing it for free.
Now, this is not just because Procter & Gamble wants to do good. It’s also they’ve got
thousands of suppliers, and they're thinking to themselves, if we can apply this simulation
technology to our smaller suppliers they're going to be able to make their products cheaper
and better, then that, in turn, is going to save us even more money. And it has a ripple effect
throughout the economy.
Starting this summer, federal agencies will partner with industries to boost manufacturing in
areas critical to our national security. I just saw an example backstage. The Defense
Department scientists -- we call it DARPA -- the folks who brought us stealth technology and,
by the way, who brought us the Internet -- wanted to see if it was possible to design defense
systems cheaper and faster. So they found a small company in Arizona called Local Motors,
and they gave them a test: You have one month to design a new combat support vehicle, and
you’ve got three months to build it.
Their CEO, Jay Rogers, is here today, and as an ex-Marine who lost a couple of buddies in
combat, understood the importance of increasing the speed and adaptability and flexibility of
our manufacturing process for vehicles that are used in theater.
So Local Motors solicited design ideas on their website, chose the best out of 162 that it
received, built and brought this new vehicle here ahead of schedule. We just took a look at it.
Not only could this change the way the government uses your tax dollars -- because think
about it, instead of having a 10-year lead time to develop a piece of equipment with all kinds
of changing specs and a moving target, if we were able to collapse the pace at which that
manufacturing takes place, that could save taxpayers billions of dollars. But it also could get
products out to theater faster, which could save lives more quickly, and could then be used to
transfer into the private sector more rapidly, which means we could get better products and
services that we can sell and export around the world. So it’s good for American companies.
It’s good for American jobs. It’s good for taxpayers. And it may save some lives in places like
Afghanistan for our soldiers.
So that’s what this is all about. As futuristic and, let’s face it, as cool as some of this stuff is,
as much as we are planning for America’s future, this partnership is about new, cutting-edge
ideas to create new jobs, spark new breakthroughs, reinvigorate American manufacturing
today. Right now. Not somewhere off in the future -- right now.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
It’s about making sure our workers and businesses have the skills and the tools they need to
compete better, faster, and smarter than anybody else. That's what we’re about. We are
America, and we don’t just keep up with changing times, we set the pace for changing times.
We adapt; we innovate; we lead the way forward.
It’s worth remembering, there was a time when steel was about as advanced as
manufacturing got. But when the namesake of this university, Andrew Carnegie -- an
immigrant, by the way -- discovered new ways to mass-produce steel cheaply, everything
changed. Just 20 years after founding his company, not only was it the largest, most
profitable in the world, America had become the number one steelmaker in the world.
Now, imagine if America was first to develop and mass-produce a new treatment that kills
cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched; or solar cells you can brush onto a house for
the same cost as paint; or flexible display soldiers -- flexible displays that soldiers can wear on
their arms; or a car that drives itself. Imagine how many workers and businesses and
consumers would prosper from those breakthroughs.
Those things aren’t science fiction -- they’re real. They’re being developed and deployed in
labs and factories and on test tracks right now. They sprang from the imagination of students
and scientists and entrepreneurs like all of you. And the purpose of this partnership is to
prove that the United States of America has your back, is going to be supporting you -because that’s the kind of adventurous, pioneering spirit that we need right now.
That’s the spirit that’s given us the tools and toughness to overcome every obstacle and adapt
to every circumstance. And if we remember that spirit, if we combine our creativity, our
innovation, and our optimism, if we come together in common cause, as we've done so many
times before, then we will thrive again. We will get to where we need to be. And we will make
this century the American century just like the last one was.
Thank you very much, everybody.
God bless you.
And God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329904" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Chile_Latin_America.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Chile%20Latin%20America.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Latin America to the People of Chile

Delivered 21 March 2011, Santiago, Chile

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Muchas gracias. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank
you. Please, please, everyone be seated.
Thank you. Buenas tardes. It is a wonderful honor to be here in Santiago, Chile. And I want
to, first of all, thank your President, President Pinera, for his outstanding leadership and the
hospitality that he’s extended not only to me but also to my wife, my daughters, and, most
importantly, my mother-in-law.
To the people of Santiago, to the people of Chile, thank you so much for your wonderful
welcome. And on behalf of the people of the United States, let me thank you for your
friendship and the strong bonds between our people.
There are several people that I just want to acknowledge very briefly. We have the President
of the Inter-American Development Bank, Luis Alberto Moreno, who is here. We also have
Alicia Bárcena, who is the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Latin America
and the Caribbean.
Throughout our history, this land has been called “el fin de la tierra” -- the end of the world.
But I’ve come here today because in the 21st century this nation is a vital part of our
interconnected world. In an age when peoples are intertwined like never before, Chile shows
that we need not be divided by race or religion or ethnic conflict. You’ve welcomed
immigrants from every corner of the globe, even as you celebrate a proud indigenous
heritage.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
At a time when people around the world are reaching for their freedoms, Chile shows that,
yes, it is possible to transition from dictatorship to democracy -- and to do so peacefully.
Indeed, our marvelous surroundings today, just steps from where Chile lost its democracy
decades ago, is a testament to Chile’s progress and its undying democratic spirit.
Despite barriers of distance and geography, you’ve integrated Chile into the global economy,
trading with countries all over the world and, in this Internet age, becoming the most digitally
connected country in Latin America.
And in a world of sometimes wrenching pain -- as we’re seeing today in Japan -- it is the
character of this country that inspires. “Our original guiding stars,” said Pablo Neruda, “are
struggle and hope.” But, he added, “there is no such thing as a lone struggle, no such thing
as a lone hope.” The Chilean people have shown this time and again, including your recovery
from the terrible earthquake here one year ago.
Credit for Chile’s success belongs to the Chilean people, whose courage, sacrifices and
perseverance built this nation into the leader that it is. And we are very honored to be joined
today by four leaders who have guided this nation through years of great progress -Presidents Aylwin, Frei, Lagos, and of course your current President Pinera. Thank you all, to
the former Presidents, for being here, as well as President Pinera.
So I could not imagine a more fitting place to discuss the new era of partnership that the
United States is pursuing not only with Chile, but across the Americas. And I’m grateful that
we’re joined by leaders and members of the diplomatic corps from across the region.
Within my first 100 days in office, one of my first foreign trips as President, I traveled to
Trinidad and Tobago to meet with leaders from across the hemisphere at the Summit of the
Americas. And there, I pledged to seek partnerships of equality and shared responsibility,
based on mutual interest and mutual respect, but also on shared values.
Now, I know I’m not the first president from the United States to pledge a new spirit of
partnership with our Latin American neighbors. Words are easy, and I know that there have
been times where perhaps the United States took this region for granted.
Even now, I know our headlines are often dominated by events in other parts of the world.
But let’s never forget: Every day, the future is being forged by the countries and peoples of
Latin America. For Latin America is not the old stereotype of a region of -- in perpetual
conflict or trapped in endless cycles of poverty. The world must now recognize Latin America
for the dynamic and growing region that it truly is.
Latin America is at peace. Civil wars have ended. Insurgencies have been pushed back. Old
border disputes have been resolved. In Colombia, great sacrifices by citizens and security
forces have restored a level of security not seen in decades.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And just as old conflicts have receded, so too have the ideological battles that often fueled
them -- the old stale debates between state-run economies and unbridled capitalism; between
the abuses of right-wing paramilitaries and left-wing insurgents; between those who believe
that the United States causes all the region’s problems and those who believe that the United
States ignores all the problems. Those are false choices, and they don’t reflect today’s
realities.
Today, Latin America is democratic. Virtually all the people of Latin America have gone from
living under dictatorships to living in democracies. Across the region, we see vibrant
democracies, from Mexico to Chile to Costa Rica. We’ve seen historic peaceful transfers of
power, from El Salvador to Uruguay to Paraguay. The work of perfecting our democracies, of
course, is never truly done, but this is the outstanding progress that’s been made here in the
Americas.
Today, Latin America is growing. Having made tough but necessary reforms, nations like
Peru and Brazil are seeing impressive growth. As a result, Latin America weathered the global
economic downturn better than other regions. Across the region, tens of millions of people
have been lifted from extreme poverty. From Guadalajara to Santiago to Sao Paolo, a new
middle class is demanding more of themselves and more of their governments.
Latin America is coming together to address shared challenges. Chile, Colombia and Mexico
are sharing their expertise in security with nations in Central America. When a coup in
Honduras threatened democratic progress, the nations of the hemisphere unanimously
invoked the Inter-American Democratic Charter, helping to lay the foundation for the return to
the rule of law. The contributions of Latin American countries have been critical in Haiti, as
has Latin American diplomacy in the lead up to yesterday’s election in Haiti.
And increasingly, Latin America is contributing to global prosperity and security. As longtime
contributors to United Nations peacekeeping missions, Latin American nations have helped to
prevent conflicts from Africa to Asia. At the G20, nations like Mexico, Brazil, Argentina now
have a greater voice in global economic decision-making. Under Mexican leadership, the
world made progress at Cancun in our efforts to combat climate change. Nations like Chile
have played a leading role in strengthening civil society groups around the world.
So this is the Latin America that I see today -- a region on the move, proud of its progress,
and ready to assume a greater role in world affairs. And for all these reasons, I believe that
Latin America is more important to the prosperity and security of the United States than ever
before. With no other region does the United States have so many connections. And nowhere
do we see that more than in the tens of millions of Hispanic Americans across the United
States, who enrich our society, grow our economy and strengthen our nation every single day.
And I believe Latin America is only going to become more important to the United States,
especially to our economy. Trade between the United States and Latin America has surged.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We buy more of your products, more of your goods than any other country, and we invest
more in this region than any other country.
For instance, we export more than three times as much to Latin America as we do to China.
Our exports to this region -- which are growing faster than our exports to the rest of the world
-- will soon support more than 2 million U.S. jobs. In other words, when Latin America is
more prosperous, the United States is more prosperous.
But even more than interests, we’re bound by shared values. In each other’s journey we see
reflections of our own. Colonists who broke free from empires. Pioneers who opened new
frontiers. Citizens who have struggled to expand our nations’ promise to all people -- men
and women, white, black and brown. We’re people of faith who must remember that all of us
-- especially the most fortunate among us -- must do our part, especially for the least among
us. We’re citizens who know that ensuring that democracies deliver for our people must be
the work of all.
This is our common history. This is our common heritage. We are all Americans. Todos
somos Americanos.
Across the Americas, parents want their children to be able to run and play and know that
they’ll come home safely. Young people all desperately want an education. Fathers want the
dignity that comes from work, and women want the same opportunities as their husbands.
Entrepreneurs want the chance to start that new business. And people everywhere want to be
treated with the respect to which every human being is entitled. These are the hopes -simple yet profound -- that beat in the hearts of millions across the Americas.
But if we’re honest, we’ll also admit that that these dreams are still beyond the reach of too
many; that progress in the Americas has not come fast enough. Not for the millions who
endure the injustice of extreme poverty. Not for the children in shantytowns and the favelas
who just want the same chance as everybody else. Not for the communities that are caught
in the brutal grips of cartels and gangs, where the police are outgunned and too many people
live in fear.
And despite this region’s democratic progress, stark inequalities endure. In political and
economic power that is too often concentrated in the hands of the few, instead of serving the
many. In the corruption that too often still stifles economic growth and development,
innovation and entrepreneurship. And in some leaders who cling to bankrupt ideologies to
justify their own power and who seek to silence their opponents because those opponents
have the audacity to demand their universal rights. These, too, are realities that we must
face.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Of course, we are not the first generation to face these challenges. Fifty years ago this
month, President John F. Kennedy proposed an ambitious Alliance for Progress. It was, even
by today’s standards, a massive investment -- billions of U.S. dollars to meet the basic needs
of people across the region. Such a program was right -- it was appropriate for that era. But
the realities of our time -- and the new capabilities and confidence of Latin America -- demand
something different.
President Kennedy’s challenge endures -- “to build a hemisphere where all people can hope
for a sustainable, suitable standard of living, and all can live out their lives in dignity and in
freedom.” But half a century later, we must give meaning to this work in our own way, in a
new way.
I believe that in the Americas today, there are no senior partners and there are no junior
partners, there are only equal partners. Of course, equal partnerships, in turn, demands a
sense of shared responsibility. We have obligations to each other. And today, the United
States is working with the nations of this hemisphere to meet our responsibilities in several
key areas.
First, we’re partnering to address the concerns that people across the Americas say they
worry about the most -- and that's the security of their families and communities. Criminal
gangs and narco-traffickers are not only a threat to the security of our citizens. They’re a
threat to development, because they scare away investment that economies need to prosper.
And they are a direct threat to democracy, because they fuel the corruption that rots
institutions from within.
So with our partners from Colombia to Mexico and new regional initiatives in Central America
and the Caribbean, we’re confronting this challenge, together, from every direction. We’ve
increased our support -- the equipment, training and technologies -- that security forces,
border security and police need to keep communities safe. We’re improving coordination and
sharing more information so that those who traffic in drugs and in human beings have fewer
places to hide. And we’re putting unprecedented pressure on cartel finances, including in the
United States.
But we’ll never break the grip of the cartels and the gangs unless we also address the social
and economic forces that fuel criminality. We need to reach at-risk youth before they turn to
drugs and crime. So we’re joining with partners across the Americas to expand communitybased policing, strengthen juvenile justice systems, and invest in crime and drug prevention
programs.
As the nations of Central American develop a new regional security strategy, the United States
stands ready to do our part through a new partnership that puts the focus where it should be
-- on the security of citizens. And with regional and international partners, we’ll make sure
our support is not just well-intentioned, but is well-coordinated and well-spent.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’ve said before and I will repeat, as President I’ve made it clear that the United States shares
and accepts our share of responsibility for drug violence. After all, the demand for drugs,
including in the United States, drives this crisis. And that’s why we’ve developed a new drug
control strategy that focused on reducing the demand for drugs through education and
prevention and treatment. And I would point out that even during difficult fiscal times in the
United States, we’ve proposed increasing our commitment to these efforts by some $10 billion
this year alone.
We’re also doing more to stem the southbound flow of guns into the region. We’re screening
all southbound rail cargo. We’re seizing many more guns bound for Mexico and we’re putting
more gunrunners behind bars. And every gun or gunrunner that we take off the streets is one
less threat to the families and communities of the Americas.
As we work to ensure the security of our citizens, we’re partnering in a second area -- and
that's promoting prosperity and opportunity. I’ve been so impressed with President Pinera’s
pledge to lift everyone out of extreme poverty by 2020. That's an ambitious goal and an
appropriate goal. And with this trip, I’m working to expand some of the trade and investment
that might help achieve this goal.
Across the region, we’re moving ahead with “open skies” agreements to bring our people and
businesses closer together. We’re moving forward with our Trans-Pacific Partnership -- which
includes Chile and Peru -- to create new trade opportunities in the fast-growing markets of the
Asia-Pacific. And as I’ve directed, my administration has intensified our efforts to move
forward on trade agreements with Panama and Colombia, consistent with our values and with
our interests.
We’re also encouraging the next generation of businesses and entrepreneurs. So we’ll work
with the Inter-American Development bank to increase lending. We’ve expanded credit under
a new Microfinance Growth Fund for the Americas. We’re supporting reforms to tax systems,
which are critical for economic growth and public investment. We’re creating new “Pathways
to Prosperity” -- microcredit, entrepreneurship training -- for those who must share in
economic growth, including women and members of Afro-Caribbean and indigenous
communities.
And we’re coming together, as a hemisphere, to create clean energy jobs and pursue more
secure and sustainable energy futures. And if anybody doubts the urgency of climate change,
they look -- they should look no further than the Americas -- from the stronger storms in the
Caribbean, to glacier melt in the Andes, to the loss of forests and farmland across the region.
Under the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas that I proposed, countries have
stepped forward, each providing leadership and expertise. Brazil has expertise in biofuels.
Chile in geothermal. Mexico on energy efficiency. El Salvador is connecting grids in Central
America to make electricity more reliable.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
These are exactly the kind of partnerships that we need -- neighbors joining with neighbors to
unleash the progress that none of us can achieve alone.
It’s the same philosophy behind two additional initiatives that I’m announcing today, which
will help our countries educate and innovate for the future. First, we’re launching a new
initiative to harness the power of social media and online networks to help students,
scientists, academics and entrepreneurs collaborate and develop the new ideas and products
that will keep America -- the Americas competitive in a global economy.
And I’m proud to announce that the United States will work with partners in this region,
including the private sector, to increase the number of U.S. students studying in Latin America
to 100,000, and the number of Latin America students studying in the United States to
100,000.
Staying competitive also, of course, demands that we address immigration -- an issue that
evokes great passions in the United States as well as in the Americas. As President, I’ve
made it clear that immigration strengthens the United States. We are a nation of immigrants,
which is why I have consistently spoken out against anti-immigrant sentiment. We’re also a
nation of laws, which is why I will not waver in my determination to fix our broken
immigration system. I’m committed to comprehensive reform that secures our borders,
enforces our laws and addresses the millions of undocumented workers who are living in the
shadows of the United States.
I believe, though, that this challenge will be with us for a very long time so long as people
believe that the only way to provide for their families is to leave their families and head north.
And that’s why the United States has to continue to partner with countries that pursue the
broad-based economic growth that gives people and nations a path out of poverty. And that’s
what we’re seeing here in Chile. As part of our new approach to development, we’re working
with partners, like Guatemala and El Salvador, who are committed to building their own
capacity -- from helping farmers improve crop yields to helping health care systems to deliver
better care.
Which leads me to the final area where we must continue to partner, and that’s strengthening
democracy and human rights. More than 60 years ago, our nations came together in an
Organization of American States and declared -- and I quote -- that “representative
democracy is an indispensable condition for the stability, peace and development of the
region.” A decade ago, we reaffirmed this principle, with an Inter-American Democratic
Charter that stated -- and I quote -- “the people of the Americas have a right to democracy
and their governments have an obligation to promote and defend it.”

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Across the Americas, generations, including generations of Chileans, have struggled and
sacrificed to give meaning to these words -- ordinary men and women who dared to speak
their mind; activists who organized new movements; faith leaders who preached social
justice; the mothers of the disappeared who demanded the truth; political prisoners who rose
to become presidents; and, even now, Las Damas de Blanco, who march in quiet dignity.
The people of the Americas have shown that there is no substitute for democracy. As
governments, we have then an obligation to defend what has been won. So as we mark the
10th anniversary of the Inter-American Democratic Charter this year, let’s reaffirm the
principles that we know to be true.
Let’s recommit to defending democracy and human rights in our own countries by
strengthening the institutions that democracy needs to flourish -- free and fair elections in
which people choose their own leaders; vibrant legislatures that provide oversight;
independent judiciaries that uphold the rule of law; a free press that promotes open debate;
professional militaries under civilian control; strong civil societies that hold governments
accountable; and governments that are transparent and responsive to their citizens. This is
what makes a democracy.
And just as we defend democracy and human rights within our borders, let’s recommit to
defending them across our hemisphere. I understand, every nation will follow its own path.
No nation should impose its will on another. But surely we can agree that democracy is about
more than majority rule, that simply holding power does not give a leader the right to
suppress the rights of others, and that leaders must maintain power through consent, and not
coercion. We have to speak out when we see those principles violated.
Let’s never waver in our support for the rights of people to determine their own future -- and,
yes, that includes the people of Cuba. Since taking office, I’ve announced the most significant
changes to my nation’s policy towards Cuba in decades. I’ve made it possible for Cuban
Americans to visit and support their families in Cuba. We’re allowing Americans to send
remittances that bring some economic hope for people across Cuba, as well as more
independence from Cuban authorities.
Going forward, we’ll continue to seek ways to increase the independence of the Cuban people,
who I believe are entitled to the same freedom and liberty as everyone else in this
hemisphere. I will make this effort to try to break out of this history that’s now lasted for
longer than I’ve been alive.
But Cuban authorities must take some meaningful actions to respect the basic rights of their
own people -- not because the United States insists upon it, but because the people of Cuba
deserve it, no less than the people of the United States or Chile or Brazil or any other country
deserve it.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
The lessons of Latin America, I believe, can be a guide -- a guide for people around the world
who are beginning their own journeys toward democracy. There is no one model for
democratic transitions. But as this region knows, successful transitions do have certain
ingredients. The moral force of nonviolence. Dialogue that’s open and inclusive. The
protection of basic rights, such as peaceful expression and assembly. Accountability for past
wrongs. And matching political reform with economic reform, because democracy must meet
the basic needs and aspirations of people.
With decades of experience, there’s so much Latin America can now share -- how to build
political parties and organize free elections; how to ensure peaceful transfers of power; how to
navigate the winding paths of reform and reconciliation. And when the inevitable setbacks
occur, you can remind people to never lose sight of those guiding stars of which Pablo Neruda
spoke -- struggle, but also hope.
Security for our citizens. Trade and development that creates jobs, prosperity and a clean
energy future. Standing up for democracy and human rights. These are the partnerships that
we can forge together -- here in the Americas but also around the world. And if anyone
doubts whether this region has the capacity to meet these challenges, they need to only
remember what happened here in Chile only a few months ago.
Their resolve and faith inspired the world -- “Los Treinta y Tres.” I don’t need to tell you the
story. You know it well. But it’s worth remembering how this entire nation came together,
across government, civilian and military, national and local; across the private sector, with
large companies and small shopkeepers donating supplies; and across every segment of
Chilean society, people came together to sustain those men down below and their families up
at Camp Esperanza. It was a miraculous rescue. It was a tribute to Chilean leadership. And
when, finally, Luis Urzua emerged, he spoke for an entire nation when he said, “I am proud to
be Chilean.”
Yet something else happened in those two months. The people and governments of Latin
America came together to stand with a neighbor in need. And with a Latin American country
in the lead, the world was proud to play a supporting role -- sending workers from the United
States and Canada, rescue equipment from Europe, communications gear from Asia. And as
the miners were lifted to safety, for those joyous reunions, it was a truly global movement,
watched and celebrated by more than a billion people.
If ever we needed a reminder of the humanity and the hopes that we share, that moment in
the desert was such. When a country like Chile puts its mind to it, there’s nothing you can’t
do. When countries across Latin America come together and focus on a common goal, when
the United States and others in the world do our part, there’s nothing we can’t accomplish
together.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that is our vision of the Americas. This is the progress we can achieve together. This is
the spirit of partnership and equality to which the United States is committed. I am confident
that, working together, there is nothing we cannot achieve.
Thank you very much. Muchas gracias.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329651" filename="Barack_Obama_-_CIA_First_Speech.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20CIA%20First%20Speech.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Address at the Central Intelligence Agency
delivered 20 April 2009, Langley, Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you for the extraordinary welcome. And thanks for those of you who prepared, from
the CIA gift shop, the t-shirts, the caps, the water bottles. Michelle and the girls will
appreciate that very much.
It is a great honor to be here with the men and women of the CIA. I’ve been eager to come
out here to Langley for some time so I can deliver a simple message to you in person on
behalf of the American people: Thank you. Thank you for all the work that you do to protect
the American people and the freedom that we all cherish.
The CIA is fundamental to America’s national security. And I want you to know that that’s why
I nominated such an outstanding public servant and close friend, Leon Panetta, to lead -- to
lead the agency. He is one of our nation’s finest public servants. He has my complete
confidence. And he is a strong voice in my national security team, as well as a strong
advocate for the men and women of the CIA.
I also benefit from the counsel of several agency veterans -- chief among them, Steve
Kappes, who’s stayed on to serve as Leon’s deputy. He’s -- and he’s done outstanding work.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I have to add, just as an aside, by the way, I just met with a smaller group of about 50, so we
could have a dialogue. And all of you look really young. And so to have a graybeard literally
and figuratively like Steve Kappes here, I think, is absolutely critical.
I also want you to know that we have one of your own, John Brennan, who is doing a terrific
job as my adviser for counterterrorism and homeland security. And we are very grateful for
the work that he does and the insights that he brings, from his long years of service here at
the CIA.
And I would be remiss if I didn’t mention the extraordinary former CIA officer and Director of
Central Intelligence, Bob Gates, who is also part of our Cabinet and every once in a while
gives me a few tips.
So let me share with you just a few thoughts about the situation in which we find ourselves.
First, I want to underscore the importance of the CIA. When the CIA was founded, you were
focused on one overarching threat, the Soviet Union. And for decades, the CIA carried out a
critically important mission. And with the end of the Cold War, some wondered how important
the CIA would be to our future. Now we know.
Here in the 21st century, we’ve learned that the CIA is more important than ever. For as Leon
mentioned, we face a wide range of unconventional challenges: stateless terrorist networks
like al-Qaeda, the spread of catastrophic weapons, cyberthreats, failed states, rogue regimes,
persistent conflict. And now we have to add to our list piracy.
The CIA is unique in the capabilities of collection, analysis and operation that you bring to
bear. So you are an indispensable tool, the tip of the spear in America’s intelligence mission
and our national security.
It is because of you that I can make good decisions. You prove that the key to good
intelligence is not simply technology. It’s the quality of the men and women who have signed
up to serve.
You’re on the front lines against unconventional challenges.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
You help us understand the world as it is. You support the work of our troops and our
diplomats and law enforcement officers. You disrupt terrorist plots, and you’re critical to our
efforts to destroy terrorist networks. You serve capably, courageously, and from here in
Virginia to dangerous outposts around the globe, you make enormous sacrifices on our behalf.
So you should be proud of what you do.
Second, you need to know that you’ve got my full support. For decades, the American people
have counted on you to protect them. I know that I’ve come to personally count on your
services. I rely on your reporting and your analysis, which finds its way onto my desk every
single day.
And I know you’ve got a tough job. I know there’s no margin for error. And I know there are
endless demands for intelligence. There is an urgent necessity to collect and analyze
information and to work seamlessly with other agencies to act on it.
And -- And what makes it tougher is when you succeed, as you so often do, that success
usually has to stay secret. So you don’t get credit when things go good, but you sure get
some blame when things don’t.
Audience Member: [Words indistinct.]
President Obama: Now -- I got an amen corner out there.
Now, in that context, I know that the last few days have been difficult.
As I made clear, in releasing the OLC memos as a consequence of a court case that was
pending and to which it was very difficult for us to mount an effective legal defense, I acted
primarily because of the exceptional circumstances that surrounded these memos, particularly
the fact that so much of the information was public -- had been publicly acknowledged. The
covert nature of the information had been compromised.
I have fought to protect the integrity of classified information in the past, and I will do so in
the future. And there is nothing more important than protecting the identities of CIA officers.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I need everybody to be clear: we will protect your identities and your security as you
vigorously pursue your missions. I will be as vigorous in protecting you as you are vigorous in
protecting the American people.
Now, I have put an end to the interrogation techniques described in those OLC memos. And I
want to -- I want to be very clear and very blunt. I’ve done so for a simple reason: because I
believe that our nation is stronger and more secure when we deploy the full measure of both
our power and the power of our values, including the rule of law. I know I can count on you to
do exactly that.
You know, there have been some conversations that I’ve had with senior folks here at Langley
in which I think people have expressed understandable anxiety and concern. So I -- I -- I
want to make a point that I just made in the smaller group. I understand that it’s hard when
you are asked to protect the American people against people who have no scruples and would
willingly and gladly kill innocents.
Al-Qaeda’s not constrained by a constitution. Many of our adversaries are not constrained by a
belief in freedom of speech or representation in court or rule of law. So I’m sure that
sometimes it seems as if that means we’re operating with one hand tied behind our back or
that those who would argue for a higher standard are naive. I understand that. You know, I’ve
-- I watch the cable shows once in a while.
What makes the United States special, and what makes you special, is precisely the fact that
we are willing to uphold our values and ideals even when it’s hard -- not just when it’s easy;
even when we are afraid and under threat -- not just when it’s expedient to do so. That’s what
makes us different.
So yes, you’ve got a harder job. And so do I. And that’s okay, because that’s why we can take
such extraordinary pride in being Americans. And over the long term, that is why I believe we
will defeat our enemies: because we’re on the better side of history.
So don’t be discouraged by what’s happened in the last few weeks. Don’t be discouraged that
we have to acknowledge potentially we’ve made some mistakes. That’s how we learn.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
But the fact that we are willing to acknowledge them and then move forward, that is precisely
why I am proud to be President of the United States, and that’s why you should be proud to
be members of the CIA. All right?
Third point -- Third point -- I want you to know how much the American people appreciate
your service. Sometimes it’s hard to acknowledge sacrifices made by the people whose work,
or even identity, must remain secret, and that’s part of the enormous burden that you carry
when you sign up. But you make the extraordinary sacrifice of giving up parts of your life in
service to your country. Many of you take long deployments overseas. You miss seeing your
families; you miss weekend barbecues and the birthday parties, watching your children grow
up. You can’t even exchange in the simplest pleasures of talking about your job -- or
complaining about your job openly.
There are few signs of patriotism more powerful than offering to serve out of the limelight,
and so many of you have signed up to serve after 9/11 -- that’s partly why you’re all so young
-- fully aware of the dangers before you. You serve courageously, but your courage is only
known to a few. You accomplish remarkable things, but the credit you receive is the private
knowledge that you’ve done something to secure this country. That’s a sacrifice that’s carved
into those marble walls. Those 89 stars stand as a testament to both the men and women of
the CIA who gave their lives in service to their country, and to all who dedicate themselves to
the mission of this agency.
Now we must look forward to the future with confidence. All that you’ve achieved, I believe
that the CIA’s best days are still yet to come. And you will have my support and appreciation
as you carry on this critical work.
We live in dangerous times. I am going to need you more than ever, precisely because we’re
seeing changes in our foreign policy, and we want to send a new message to the world. That
requires better intelligence, not less of it. That means that we’re going to have to operate
smarter and more effectively than ever. So I’m going to be relying on you, and the American
people are going to rely on you. And I hope that you will continue to take extraordinary pride
in the challenges that come with the job.
Thank you very much. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329936" filename="Barack_Obama_-_CIA_Intelligence_Community.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20CIA%20Intelligence%20Community.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Intelligence Community at CIA Headquarters

Delivered 20 May 2011, Langley, Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Well, thank you, Leon, and thank you, Jim.
When I chose Leon Panetta as Director of the CIA, I said he was going to be a strong advocate
for this agency and would strengthen your capabilities to meet the threats of our time. And
when I chose Jim Clapper as Director of National Intelligence, I charged him with making sure
that our intelligence community works as one integrated team. That’s exactly what these two
leaders have done, along with all of you.
So, Jim and Leon, thank you for your remarkable leadership, not just in recent weeks, but
during the entirety of your tenure. You have done a great job.
This is my third visit here to Langley as President, and each of these visits has marked
another milestone in our mission to protect the American people and keep our country safe.
On my first visit, just months after taking office, I stood here and I said that this agency and
our entire intelligence community is fundamental to America’s national security. I said that I
believed that your best days were still to come and I pledged that you would have my full
support to carry out your critical work.
Soon after that visit, I called Leon into the Oval Office and I directed him to make the killing
or capture of Osama bin Laden the top priority in our war to defeat al Qaeda. And he came
back here, and you guys, who had already been working so hard on this issue, redoubled your
efforts. And that was true all across the intelligence community.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
My second visit, a year later, came under more somber circumstances. We gathered to pay
tribute to seven American patriots who gave their lives in this fight at a remote post in
Afghanistan. As has already been mentioned, their stars now grace this memorial wall. And
through our grief and our tears, we resolved that their sacrifice would be our summons to
carry on their work, to complete this mission, to win this war.
Today I’ve returned just to say thank you, on behalf of all Americans and people around the
world, because you carried on. You stayed focused on your mission. You honored the memory
of your fallen colleagues. And in helping to locate and take down Osama bin Laden, you made
it possible for us to achieve the most significant victory yet in our war to defeat al Qaeda.
I just met with some of the outstanding leaders and teams from across the community who
worked so long and so hard to make that raid a success. And I’m pleased today that we’re
joined by representatives from all of our intelligence agencies, and that folks are watching this
live back at all of those agencies, because this truly was a team effort. That’s not always the
case in Washington. But all of you work together every single day.
This is one of the few times when all these leaders and organizations have the occasion to
appear together publicly. And so I thank all of you for coming -- because I think it’s so
important for the American people to see all of you here today.
Part of the challenge of intelligence work is, by necessity, your work has to remain secret. I
know that carries a heavy burden. You’re often the first ones to get the blame when things go
wrong, and you’re always the last ones to get the credit when things go right. So when things
do go right -- and they do more often than the world will ever know -- we ought to celebrate
your success.
That’s why I came here. I wanted every single one of you to know, whether you work at the
CIA or across the community, at every step of our effort to take out bin Laden, the work you
did and the quality of the intelligence that you provided made the critical difference -- to me,
to our team on those helicopters, to our nation.
After I directed that getting bin Laden be the priority, you hunkered down even more, building
on years of painstaking work; pulling together, in some cases, the slenderest of intelligence
streams, running those threads to ground until you found that courier and you tracked him to
that compound. And when I was briefed last summer, you had built the strongest intelligence
case against -- in terms of where bin Laden was since Tora Bora.
In the months that followed, including all those meetings in the Situation Room, we did what
sound intelligence demands: We pushed for more collection. We pushed for more evidence.
We questioned our assumptions. You strengthened your analysis. You didn’t bite your tongue
and try to spin the ball, but you gave it to me straight each and every time.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we did something really remarkable in Washington -- we kept it a secret. That’s how it
should be.
Of course, when the time came to actually make the decision, we didn’t know for sure that bin
Laden was there. The evidence was circumstantial and the risks, especially to the lives of our
special operations forces, were huge. And I knew that the consequences of failure could be
enormous. But I made the decision that I did because I had absolute confidence in the skill of
our military personnel and I had confidence in you. I put my bet on you. And now the whole
world knows that that faith in you was justified.
So just as impressive as what you did was how you did it. It was a tribute to your
perseverance, your relentless focus and determination over many years. For the fight against
al Qaeda did not begin on 9/11. Among you are veterans who’ve been pursuing these
murderers for many years, even before they attacked our embassies in Africa and struck the
[USS] Cole in Yemen. Among you are young men and women for whom 9/11 was a call to
service. This fight has defined your generation. And on this wall are stars honoring all your
colleagues and friends, more than a dozen who have given their lives in the fight against al
Qaeda and its violent allies.
As the years wore on, others began to think that this terrorist might never be brought to
justice. But you never quit. You never gave up. You pulled together across this agency and
across the community.
No one piece of information and no one agency made this possible. You did it together -- CIA,
National Security Agency, National Reconnaissance Office, the National Geospatial Intelligence
Agency, everyone at ODNI and the National Counterterrorism Center. Folks across the
country, civilian and military, so many of you here today.
And that’s exactly how our intelligence community is supposed to work, using every capability
-- human, technical -- collecting, analyzing, sharing, integrating intelligence, and then acting
on it.
That’s what made this one of the greatest intelligence successes in American history, and
that’s why intelligence professionals are going to study and be inspired by your achievement
for generations to come.
Now, make no mistake -- this is not over. Because we not only took out the symbol and
operational leader of al Qaeda, we walked off with his files -- the largest treasure trove of
intelligence ever seized from a terrorist leader. Many of you now are working around the
clock; you didn’t have much time to celebrate. We’ve got to analyze and evaluate and exploit
this mountain of intelligence.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So today, every terrorist in the al Qaeda network should be watching their back, because
we’re going to review every video, we are going to examine every photo, we’re going to read
every one of those millions of pages, we’re going to pursue every lead. We are going to go
wherever it takes us. We’re going to finish the job. We are going to defeat al Qaeda.
Even as we stay focused on this mission, we need you to stay nimble and flexible to meet the
full range of threats to our security, from plots against our homeland to nations seeking
weapons of mass destruction to transnational threats such as cyber criminals and narcotrafficers.
So I’m going to keep relying on you -- for your intelligence, the analysis that comes across my
desk every single day. And 300-plus [million] Americans are counting on you to stay a step
ahead of our adversaries and to keep our country safe.
I have never been more proud or more confident in you than I am today -- not just because
this extraordinary success, but because it reminds us of who we are as a people and as a
nation. You reminded us that when we Americans set our mind to something, when we are
focused and when we are working together, when we’re not worried about who’s getting the
credit and when we stay true to our values, even if it takes years, there is nothing we cannot
do.
That’s why I still believe in what I said my first visit here two years ago: Your greatest days
are still to come. And if any of you doubt what this means, I wish I could have taken some of
you on the trip I made to New York City, where we laid a wreath at Ground Zero, and I had a
chance to meet firefighters who had lost an entire shift; police officers who had lost their
comrades; a young woman, 14 years old, who had written to me because her last memory of
her father was talking to him on the phone while her mother wept beside her, right before
they watched the tower go down.
And she and other members of families of 9/11 victims talked about what this meant. It
meant that their suffering had not been forgotten, and that the American community stands
with them, that we stand with each other.
So most of you will never get headlines for the work that you do. You won’t get ticker-tape
parades. But as you go about your work with incredible diligence and dedication every single
day, I hope all of you understand how important it is, how grateful I am, and that you have
the thanks of a grateful nation.
God bless you.
And God bless the United States of America.
Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329842" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Comprehensive_Immigration_Reform.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Comprehensive%20Immigration%20Reform.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Comprehensive Immigration Reform

Delivered 1 July 2010, American University, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Everyone please have a seat. Thank you very much. Let -- Let me thank Pastor
Hybels from near my hometown in Chicago, who took time off his vacation to be here today.
We are blessed to have him.
I want to thank President Neil Kerwin and our hosts here at American University; acknowledge
my outstanding Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis, and members of my administration; all the
members of Congress -- Hilda deserves applause. To all the members of Congress, the
elected officials, faith and law enforcement, labor, business leaders and immigration
advocates who are here today -- thank you for your presence.
I want to thank American University for welcoming me to the campus once again. Some may
recall that the last time I was here I was joined by a dear friend, and a giant of American
politics, Senator Edward Kennedy. Teddy’s not here right now, but his legacy of civil rights
and health care and worker protections is still with us.
I was a candidate for President that day, and some may recall I argued that our country had
reached a tipping point; that after years in which we had deferred our most pressing
problems, and too often yielded to the politics of the moment, we now faced a choice: We
could squarely confront our challenges with honesty and determination, or we could consign
ourselves and our children to a future less prosperous and less secure.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I believed that then and I believe it now. And that’s why, even as we’ve tackled the most
severe economic crisis since the Great Depression, even as we’ve wound down the war in Iraq
and refocused our efforts in Afghanistan, my administration has refused to ignore some of the
fundamental challenges facing this generation.
We launched the most aggressive education reforms in decades, so that our children can gain
the knowledge and skills they need to compete in a 21st century global economy.
We have finally delivered on the promise of health reform -- reform that will bring greater
security to every American, and that will rein in the skyrocketing costs that threaten families,
businesses and the prosperity of our nation.
We’re on the verge of reforming an outdated and ineffective set of rules governing Wall Street
-- to give greater power to consumers and prevent the reckless financial speculation that led
to this severe recession.
And we’re accelerating the transition to a clean energy economy by significantly raising the
fuel-efficiency standards of cars and trucks, and by doubling our use of renewable energies
like wind and solar power -- steps that have the potential to create whole new industries and
hundreds of thousands of new jobs in America.
So, despite the forces of the status quo, despite the polarization and the frequent pettiness of
our politics, we are confronting the great challenges of our times. And while this work isn’t
easy, and the changes we seek won’t always happen overnight, what we’ve made clear is that
this administration will not just kick the can down the road.
Immigration reform is no exception. In recent days, the issue of immigration has become
once more a source of fresh contention in our country, with the passage of a controversial law
in Arizona and the heated reactions we’ve seen across America. Some have rallied behind this
new policy. Others have protested and launched boycotts of the state. And everywhere,
people have expressed frustration with a system that seems fundamentally broken.
Of course, the tensions around immigration are not new. On the one hand, we’ve always
defined ourselves as a nation of immigrants -- a nation that welcomes those willing to
embrace America’s precepts. Indeed, it is this constant flow of immigrants that helped to
make America what it is. The scientific breakthroughs of Albert Einstein, the inventions of
Nikola Tesla, the great ventures of Andrew Carnegie’s U.S. Steel and Sergey Brin’s Google,
Inc. -- all this was possible because of immigrants.
And then there are the countless names and the quiet acts that never made the history books
but were no less consequential in building this country -- the generations who braved hardship
and great risk to reach our shores in search of a better life for themselves and their families;

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
the millions of people, ancestors to most of us, who believed that there was a place where
they could be, at long last, free to work and worship and live their lives in peace.
So this steady stream of hardworking and talented people has made America the engine of
the global economy and a beacon of hope around the world. And it’s allowed us to adapt and
thrive in the face of technological and societal change. To this day, America reaps incredible
economic rewards because we remain a magnet for the best and brightest from across the
globe. Folks travel here in the hopes of being a part of a culture of entrepreneurship and
ingenuity, and by doing so they strengthen and enrich that culture. Immigration also means
we have a younger workforce -- and a faster-growing economy -- than many of our
competitors. And in an increasingly interconnected world, the diversity of our country is a
powerful advantage in global competition.
Just a few weeks ago, we had an event of small business owners at the White House. And
one business owner was a woman named Prachee Devadas who came to this country, became
a citizen, and opened up a successful technology services company. When she started, she
had just one employee. Today, she employs more than a hundred people. This past April, we
held a naturalization ceremony at the White House for members of our armed forces. Even
though they were not yet citizens, they had enlisted. One of them was a woman named Perla
Ramos -- born and raised in Mexico, came to the United States shortly after 9/11, and she
eventually joined the Navy. And she said, “I take pride in our flag and the history that forged
this great nation and the history we write day by day.”
These women, and men and women across this country like them, remind us that immigrants
have always helped to build and defend this country -- and that being an American is not a
matter of blood or birth. It’s a matter of faith. It’s a matter of fidelity to the shared values
that we all hold so dear. That’s what makes us unique. That’s what makes us strong.
Anybody can help us write the next great chapter in our history.
Now, we can’t forget that this process of immigration and eventual inclusion has often been
painful. Each new wave of immigrants has generated fear and resentments towards
newcomers, particularly in times of economic upheaval. Our founding was rooted in the
notion that America was unique as a place of refuge and freedom for, in Thomas Jefferson’s
words, “oppressed humanity.” But the ink on our Constitution was barely dry when, amidst
conflict, Congress passed the Alien and Sedition Acts, which placed harsh restrictions of those
suspected of having foreign allegiances. A century ago, immigrants from Ireland, Italy,
Poland, other European countries were routinely subjected to rank discrimination and ugly
stereotypes. Chinese immigrants were held in detention and deported from Angel Island in
the San Francisco Bay. They didn’t even get to come in.
So the politics of who is and who is not allowed to enter this country, and on what terms, has
always been contentious. And that remains true today. And it’s made worse by a failure of
those of us in Washington to fix a broken immigration system.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
To begin with, our borders have been porous for decades. Obviously, the problem is greatest
along our Southern border, but it’s not restricted to that part of the country. In fact, because
we don’t do a very good job of tracking who comes in and out of the country as visitors, large
numbers avoid immigration laws simply by overstaying their visas.
The result is an estimated 11 million undocumented immigrants in the United States. The
overwhelming majority of these men and women are simply seeking a better life for
themselves and their children. Many settle in low-wage sectors of the economy; they work
hard, they save, they stay out of trouble. But because they live in the shadows, they’re
vulnerable to unscrupulous businesses who pay them less than the minimum wage or violate
worker safety rules -- thereby putting companies who follow those rules, and Americans who
rightly demand the minimum wage or overtime, at an unfair [dis]advantage. Crimes go
unreported as victims and witnesses fear coming forward. And this makes it harder for the
police to catch violent criminals and keep neighborhoods safe. And billions in tax revenue are
lost each year because many undocumented workers are paid under the table.
More fundamentally, the presence of so many illegal immigrants makes a mockery of all those
who are going through the process of immigrating legally. Indeed, after years of patchwork
fixes and ill-conceived revisions, the legal immigration system is as broken as the borders.
Backlogs and bureaucracy means the process can take years. While an applicant waits for
approval, he or she is often forbidden from visiting the United States -- which means even
husbands and wives may be forced to spend many years apart. High fees and the need for
lawyers may exclude worthy applicants. And while we provide students from around the
world visas to get engineering and computer science degrees at our top universities, our laws
discourage them from using those skills to start a business or power a new industry right here
in the United States. Instead of training entrepreneurs to create jobs on our shores, we train
our competition.
In sum, the system is broken. And everybody knows it. Unfortunately, reform has been held
hostage to political posturing and special-interest wrangling -- and to the pervasive sentiment
in Washington that tackling such a thorny and emotional issue is inherently bad politics.
Just a few years ago, when I was a senator, we forged a bipartisan coalition in favor of
comprehensive reform. Under the leadership of Senator Kennedy, who had been a longtime
champion of immigration reform, and Senator John McCain, we worked across the aisle to
help pass a bipartisan bill through the Senate. But that effort eventually came apart. And
now, under the pressures of partisanship and election-year politics, many of the 11 Republican
senators who voted for reform in the past have now backed away from their previous
support.
Into this breach, states like Arizona have decided to take matters into their own hands. Given
the levels of frustration across the country, this is understandable. But it is also ill conceived.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And it’s not just that the law Arizona passed is divisive -- although it has fanned the flames of
an already contentious debate. Laws like Arizona’s put huge pressures on local law
enforcement to enforce rules that ultimately are unenforceable. It puts pressure on already
hard-strapped state and local budgets. It makes it difficult for people here illegally to report
crimes -- driving a wedge between communities and law enforcement, making our streets
more dangerous and the jobs of our police officers more difficult.
And you don’t have to take my word for this. You can speak to the police chiefs and others
from law enforcement here today who will tell you the same thing.
These laws also have the potential of violating the rights of innocent American citizens and
legal residents, making them subject to possible stops or questioning because of what they
look like or how they sound. And as other states and localities go their own ways, we face the
prospect that different rules for immigration will apply in different parts of the country -- a
patchwork of local immigration rules where we all know one clear national standard is
needed.
Our task then is to make our national laws actually work -- to shape a system that reflects our
values as a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants. And that means being honest about
the problem, and getting past the false debates that divide the country rather than bring it
together.
For example, there are those in the immigrants’ rights community who have argued
passionately that we should simply provide those who are [here] illegally with legal status, or
at least ignore the laws on the books and put an end to deportation until we have better
laws. And often this argument is framed in moral terms: Why should we punish people who
are just trying to earn a living?
I recognize the sense of compassion that drives this argument, but I believe such an
indiscriminate approach would be both unwise and unfair. It would suggest to those thinking
about coming here illegally that there will be no repercussions for such a decision. And this
could lead to a surge in more illegal immigration. And it would also ignore the millions of
people around the world who are waiting in line to come here legally.
Ultimately, our nation, like all nations, has the right and obligation to control its borders and
set laws for residency and citizenship. And no matter how decent they are, no matter their
reasons, the 11 million who broke these laws should be held accountable.
Now, if the majority of Americans are skeptical of a blanket amnesty, they are also skeptical
that it is possible to round up and deport 11 million people. They know it’s not possible. Such
an effort would be logistically impossible and wildly expensive. Moreover, it would tear at the
very fabric of this nation -- because immigrants who are here illegally are now intricately
woven into that fabric.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Many have children who are American citizens. Some are children themselves, brought here
by their parents at a very young age, growing up as American kids, only to discover their
illegal status when they apply for college or a job. Migrant workers -- mostly here illegally -have been the labor force of our farmers and agricultural producers for generations. So even
if it was possible, a program of mass deportations would disrupt our economy and
communities in ways that most Americans would find intolerable.
Now, once we get past the two poles of this debate, it becomes possible to shape a practical,
common-sense approach that reflects our heritage and our values. Such an approach
demands accountability from everybody -- from government, from businesses and from
individuals.
Government has a threshold responsibility to secure our borders. That’s why I directed my
Secretary of Homeland Security, Janet Napolitano -- a former border governor -- to improve
our enforcement policy without having to wait for a new law.
Today, we have more boots on the ground near the Southwest border than at any time in our
history. Let me repeat that: We have more boots on the ground on the Southwest border
than at any time in our history. We doubled the personnel assigned to Border Enforcement
Security Task Forces. We tripled the number of intelligence analysts along the border. For
the first time, we’ve begun screening 100 percent of southbound rail shipments. And as a
result, we’re seizing more illegal guns, cash and drugs than in years past. Contrary to some
of the reports that you see, crime along the border is down. And statistics collected by
Customs and Border Protection reflect a significant reduction in the number of people trying to
cross the border illegally.
So the bottom line is this: The southern border is more secure today than at any time in the
past 20 years. That doesn’t mean we don’t have more work to do. We have to do that work,
but it’s important that we acknowledge the facts. Even as we are committed to doing what’s
necessary to secure our borders, even without passage of the new law, there are those who
argue that we should not move forward with any other elements of reform until we have fully
sealed our borders. But our borders are just too vast for us to be able to solve the problem
only with fences and border patrols. It won’t work. Our borders will not be secure as long as
our limited resources are devoted to not only stopping gangs and potential terrorists, but also
the hundreds of thousands who attempt to cross each year simply to find work.
That’s why businesses must be held accountable if they break the law by deliberately hiring
and exploiting undocumented workers. We’ve already begun to step up enforcement against
the worst workplace offenders. And we’re implementing and improving a system to give
employers a reliable way to verify that their employees are here legally. But we need to do
more. We cannot continue just to look the other way as a significant portion of our economy
operates outside the law. It breeds abuse and bad practices. It punishes employers who act
responsibly and undercuts American workers.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And ultimately, if the demand for undocumented workers falls, the incentive for people to
come here illegally will decline as well.
Finally, we have to demand responsibility from people living here illegally. They must be
required to admit that they broke the law. They should be required to register, pay their
taxes, pay a fine, and learn English. They must get right with the law before they can get in
line and earn their citizenship -- not just because it is fair, not just because it will make clear
to those who might wish to come to America they must do so inside the bounds of the law,
but because this is how we demonstrate that being -- what being an American means. Being
a citizen of this country comes not only with rights but also with certain fundamental
responsibilities. We can create a pathway for legal status that is fair, reflective of our values,
and works.
Now, stopping illegal immigration must go hand in hand with reforming our creaky system of
legal immigration. We’ve begun to do that, by eliminating a backlog in background checks
that at one point stretched back almost a year. That’s just for the background check. People
can now track the status of their immigration applications by email or text message. We’ve
improved accountability and safety in the detention system. And we’ve stemmed the
increases in naturalization fees. But here, too, we need to do more. We should make it
easier for the best and the brightest to come to start businesses and develop products and
create jobs.
Our laws should respect families following the rules -- instead of splitting them apart. We
need to provide farms a legal way to hire the workers they rely on, and a path for those
workers to earn legal status. And we should stop punishing innocent young people for the
actions of their parents by denying them the chance to stay here and earn an education and
contribute their talents to build the country where they’ve grown up. The DREAM Act would
do this, and that’s why I supported this bill as a state legislator and as a U.S. senator -- and
why I continue to support it as president.
So these are the essential elements of comprehensive immigration reform. The question now
is whether we will have the courage and the political will to pass a bill through Congress, to
finally get it done. Last summer, I held a meeting with leaders of both parties, including
many of the Republicans who had supported reform in the past -- and some who hadn’t. I
was pleased to see a bipartisan framework proposed in the Senate by Senators Lindsey
Graham and Chuck Schumer, with whom I met to discuss this issue. I’ve spoken with the
Congressional Hispanic Caucus to plot the way forward and meet -- and then I met with them
earlier this week.
And I’ve spoken with representatives from a growing coalition of labor unions and business
groups, immigrant advocates and community organizations, law enforcement, local
government -- all who recognize the importance of immigration reform.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I’ve met with leaders from America’s religious communities, like Pastor Hybels -- people
of different faiths and beliefs, some liberal, some conservative, who nonetheless share a sense
of urgency; who understand that fixing our broken immigration system is not only a political
issue, not just an economic issue, but a moral imperative as well.
So we’ve made progress. I’m ready to move forward; the majority of Democrats are ready to
move forward; and I believe the majority of Americans are ready to move forward. But the
fact is, without bipartisan support, as we had just a few years ago, we cannot solve this
problem. Reform that brings accountability to our immigration system cannot pass without
Republican votes. That is the political and mathematical reality. The only way to reduce the
risk that this effort will again falter because of politics is if members of both parties are willing
to take responsibility for solving this problem once and for all.
And, yes, this is an emotional question, and one that lends itself to demagoguery. Time and
again, this issue has been used to divide and inflame -- and to demonize people. And so the
understandable, the natural impulse among those who run for office is to turn away and defer
this question for another day, or another year, or another administration. Despite the
courageous leadership in the past shown by many Democrats and some Republicans -including, by the way, my predecessor, President Bush -- this has been the custom. That is
why a broken and dangerous system that offends our most basic American values is still in
place.
But I believe we can put politics aside and finally have an immigration system that’s
accountable. I believe we can appeal not to people’s fears but to their hopes, to their highest
ideals, because that’s who we are as Americans. It’s been inscribed on our nation’s seal since
we declared our independence. “E pluribus unum.” Out of many, one. That is what has
drawn the persecuted and impoverished to our shores. That’s what led the innovators and
risk-takers from around the world to take a chance here in the land of opportunity. That’s
what has led people to endure untold hardships to reach this place called America.
One of the largest waves of immigration in our history took place little more than a century
ago. At the time, Jewish people were being driven out of Eastern Europe, often escaping to
the sounds of gunfire and the light from their villages burning to the ground. The journey
could take months, as families crossed rivers in the dead of night, traveled miles by foot,
endured a rough and dangerous passage over the North Atlantic. Once here, many made
their homes in a teeming and bustling Lower Manhattan.
It was at this time that a young woman named Emma Lazarus, whose own family fled
persecution from Europe generations earlier, took up the cause of these new immigrants.
Although she was a poet, she spent much of her time advocating for better health care and
housing for the newcomers. And inspired by what she saw and heard, she wrote down her
thoughts and donated a piece of work to help pay for the construction of a new statue -- the
Statue of Liberty -- which actually was funded in part by small donations from people across
America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Years before the statue was built -- years before it would be seen by throngs of immigrants
craning their necks skyward at the end of long and brutal voyage, years before it would come
to symbolize everything that we cherish -- she imagined what it could mean. She imagined
the sight of a giant statue at the entry point of a great nation -- but unlike the great
monuments of the past, this would not signal an empire. Instead, it would signal one’s arrival
to a place of opportunity and refuge and freedom.
“Here at our sea-washed, sunset gates shall stand,” she wrote,
A mighty woman with a torch…
From her beacon-hand
Glows world-wide welcome…
“Keep, ancient lands, your storied pomp!”…
“Give me your tired, and your poor,
Your huddled masses yearning to be free…
Send these, the homeless, tempest-tossed to me,
I lift my lamp beside the golden door!”
Let us remember these words. For it falls on each generation to ensure that that lamp -- that
beacon -- continues to shine as a source of hope around the world, and a source of our
prosperity here at home.
Thank you. God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329772" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Congress_Call_Health_Care_Reform.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Congress%20Call%20Health%20Care%20Reform.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Call for Congress to Vote on Health Care Reform Legislation
delivered 3 March 2010, White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much, all of you, for joining us today. And I want to thank Julie, Barbara, Roland, Stephen,
Renee, and Christopher, standing behind me -- physicians, physicians assistants, and nurses who
understand how important it is for us to make much needed changes in our health care system.
I want to thank all of you who are here today. I want to specially recognize two people who have been
working tirelessly on that -- on this effort, my Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius -as well as our quarterback for health reform out of the White House, Nancy-Ann DeParle.
We began our push to reform health insurance last March, in this room, with doctors and nurses who know
the system best. And so it’s fitting to be joined by all of you as we bring this journey to a close.
Last Thursday, I spent seven hours at a summit where Democrats and Republicans engaged in a public and
very substantive discussion about health care. This meeting capped off a debate that began with a similar
summit nearly one year ago. And since then, every idea has been put on the table. Every argument has
been made. Everything there is to say about health care has been said -- and just about everybody has
said it. So now is the time to make a decision about how to finally reform health care so that it works, not
just for the insurance companies, but for America’s families and America’s businesses.
Now, where both sides say they agree is that the status quo is not working for the American people. Health
insurance is becoming more expensive by the day. Families can’t afford it. Businesses can’t afford it. The
federal government can’t afford it. Smaller businesses and individuals who don’t get coverage at work are
squeezed especially hard. And insurance companies freely ration health care based on who’s sick and
who’s healthy; who can pay and who can’t. That's the status quo. That's the system we have right now.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Democrats and Republicans agree that this is a serious problem for America. And we agree that if we do
nothing -- if we throw up our hands and walk away -- it’s a problem that will only grow worse. Nobody
disputes that. More Americans will lose their family's health insurance if they switch jobs or lose their job.
More small businesses will be forced to choose between health care and hiring. More insurance companies
will deny people coverage who have preexisting conditions, or they'll drop people's coverage when they get
sick and need it most. And the rising cost of Medicare and Medicaid will sink our government deeper and
deeper and deeper into debt. On all of this we agree. So the question is, what do we do about it?
On one end of the spectrum, there are some who've suggested scrapping our system of private insurance
and replacing it with a government-run health care system. And though many other countries have such a
system, in America it would be neither practical nor realistic.
On the other end of the spectrum, there are those, and this includes most Republicans in Congress, who
believe the answer is to loosen regulations on the insurance industry -- whether it's state consumer
protections or minimum standards for the kind of insurance they can sell. The argument is, is that that will
somehow lower costs. I disagree with that approach. I'm concerned that this would only give the insurance
industry even freer rein to raise premiums and deny care.
So I don't believe we should give government bureaucrats or insurance company bureaucrats more control
over health care in America. I believe it's time to give the American people more control over their health
care and their health insurance. I don't believe we can afford to leave life-and-death decisions about health
care to the discretion of insurance company executives alone. I believe that doctors and nurses and
physician assistants like the ones in this room should be free to decide what's best for their patients.
Now, the proposal I put forward gives Americans more control over their health insurance and their health
care by holding insurance companies more accountable. It builds on the current system where most
Americans get their health insurance from their employer. If you like your plan, you can keep your plan. If
you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. I can tell you as the father of two young girls, I would not
want any plan that interferes with the relationship between a family and their doctor.
Essentially, my proposal would change three things about the current health care system. First, it would
end the worst practices of insurance companies. No longer would they be able to deny your coverage
because of a preexisting condition. No longer would they be able to drop your coverage because you got
sick. No longer would they be able to force you to pay unlimited amounts of money out of your own pocket.
No longer would they be able to arbitrarily and massively raise premiums like Anthem Blue Cross recently
tried to do in California -- up to 39 percent increases in one year in the individual market. Those practices
would end.
Second, my proposal would give uninsured individuals and small business owners the same kind of choice
of private health insurance that members of Congress get for themselves -- because if it’s good enough for
members of Congress, it’s good enough for the people who pay their salaries.
The reason federal employees get a good deal on health insurance is that we all participate in an insurance
market where insurance companies give better coverage and better rates, because they get more
customers. It's an idea that many Republicans have embraced in the past, before politics intruded.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And my proposal says that if you still can’t afford the insurance in this new marketplace, even though it's
going to provide better deals for people than they can get right now in the individual marketplace, then we'll
offer you tax credits to do so -- tax credits that add up to the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in
history. After all, the wealthiest among us can already buy the best insurance there is, and the least well off
are able to get coverage through Medicaid. So it's the middle class that gets squeezed, and that’s who we
have to help.
Now, it is absolutely true that all of this will cost some money -- about $100 billion per year. But most of this
comes from the nearly $2 trillion a year that America already spends on health care -- but a lot of it is not
spent wisely. A lot of that money is being wasted or spent badly. So within this plan, we’re going to make
sure the dollars we spend go towards making insurance more affordable and more secure. We’re going to
eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies that currently go to insurance and pharmaceutical companies; set a
new fee on insurance companies that stand to gain a lot of money and a lot of profits as millions of
Americans are able to buy insurance; and we're going to make sure that the wealthiest Americans pay their
fair share on Medicare.
The bottom line is our proposal is paid for. And all the new money generated in this plan goes back to small
businesses and middle-class families who can't afford health insurance. It would also lower prescription
drug prices for seniors. And it would help train new doctors and nurses and physician assistants to provide
care for American families.
Finally, my proposal would bring down the cost of health care for millions -- families, businesses, and the
federal government. We have now incorporated most of the serious ideas from across the political
spectrum about how to contain the rising cost of health care -- ideas that go after the waste and abuse in
our system, especially in programs like Medicare. But we do this while protecting Medicare benefits, and
extending the financial stability of the program by nearly a decade.
Our cost-cutting measures mirror most of the proposals in the current Senate bill, which reduces most
people's premiums and brings down our deficit by up to a trillion dollars over the next two decades -- brings
down our deficit. Those aren't my numbers; those are the savings determined by the Congressional Budget
Office, which is the Washington acronym for the nonpartisan, independent referee of Congress in terms of
how much stuff costs.
So that's our proposal. This is where we've ended up. It's an approach that has been debated and
changed and I believe improved over the last year. It incorporates the best ideas from Democrats and
Republicans -- including some of the ideas that Republicans offered during the health care summit, like
funding state grants on medical malpractice reform, and curbing waste and fraud and abuse in the health
care system. My proposal also gets rid of many of the provisions that had no place in health care reform -provisions that were more about winning individual votes in Congress than improving health care for all
Americans.
Now, despite all that we agree on and all the Republican ideas we've incorporated, many -- probably most -Republicans in Congress just have a fundamental disagreement over whether we should have more or less
oversight of insurance companies. And if they truly believe that less regulation would lead to higher quality,
more affordable health insurance, then they should vote against the proposal I've put forward.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, some also believe that we should, instead of doing what I'm proposing, pursue a piecemeal approach
to health insurance reform, where we tinker around the edges of this challenge for the next few years. Even
those who acknowledge the problem of the uninsured say we just can't afford to help them right now -which is why the Republican proposal only covers 3 million uninsured Americans while we cover over 31
million.
The problem with that approach is that unless everyone has access to affordable coverage, you can't
prevent insurance companies from denying coverage based on preexisting conditions; you can't limit the
amount families are forced to pay out of their own pockets. The insurance reforms rest on everybody
having access to coverage. And you also don't do anything about the fact that taxpayers currently end up
subsidizing the uninsured when they're forced to go to the emergency room for care, to the tune of about a
thousand bucks per family. You can't get those savings if those people are still going to the emergency
room. So the fact is, health reform only works if you take care of all of these problems at once.
Now, both during and after last week's summit, Republicans in Congress insisted that the only acceptable
course on health care reform is to start over. But given these honest and substantial differences between
the parties about the need to regulate the insurance industry and the need to help millions of middle-class
families get insurance, I don't see how another year of negotiations would help.
Moreover, the insurance companies aren't starting over. They're continuing to raise premiums and deny
coverage as we speak. For us to start over now could simply lead to delay that could last for another
decade, or even more. The American people, and the U.S. economy, just can't wait that long. So, no
matter which approach you favor, I believe the United States Congress owes the American people a final
vote on health care reform.
We have debated this issue thoroughly, not just for the past year but for decades. Reform has already
passed the House with a majority. It has already passed the Senate with a supermajority of 60 votes. And
now it deserves the same kind of up or down vote that was cast on welfare reform, that was cast on the
Children's Health Insurance Program, that was used for COBRA health coverage for the unemployed, and,
by the way, for both Bush tax cuts -- all of which had to pass Congress with nothing more than a simple
majority.
I, therefore, ask leaders in both houses of Congress to finish their work and schedule a vote in the next few
weeks. From now until then, I will do everything in my power to make the case for reform. And I urge every
American who wants this reform to make their voice heard as well -- every family, every business, every
patient, every doctor, every nurse, every physician’s assistant. Make your voice heard.
This has been a long and wrenching debate. It has stoked great passions among the American people and
their representatives. And that's because health care is a difficult issue. It is a complicated issue. If it was
easy, it would have been solved long ago. As all of you know from experience, health care can literally be
an issue of life or death. And as a result, it easily lends itself to demagoguery and political gamesmanship,
and misrepresentation and misunderstanding.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
But that’s not an excuse for those of us who were sent here to lead. That's not an excuse for us to walk
away. We can’t just give up because the politics are hard. I know there’s been a fascination, bordering on
obsession, in this media town about what passing health insurance reform would mean for the next election
and the one after that. How will this play? What will happen with the polls? I will leave it to others to sift
through the politics, because that’s not what this is about. That’s not why we’re here.
This is about what reform would mean for the mother with breast cancer whose insurance company will
finally have to pay for her chemotherapy. This is about what reform would mean for the small business
owner who will no longer have to choose between hiring more workers or offering coverage to the
employees she has. This is about what reform would mean for middle-class families who will be able to
afford health insurance for the very first time in their lives and get a regular checkup once in a while, and
have some security about their children if they get sick.
This is about what reform would mean for all those men and women I’ve met over the last few years who’ve
been brave enough to share their stories. When we started our push for reform last year, I talked to a young
mother in Wisconsin named Laura Klitzka. She has two young children. She thought she had beaten her
breast cancer but then later discovered it had spread to her bones. She and her husband were working and
had insurance, but their medical bills still landed them in debt. And now she spends time worrying about
that debt when all she wants to do is spend time with her children and focus on getting well.
This should not happen in the United States of America. And it doesn’t have to.
In the end, that's what this debate is about. It's about what kind of country we want to be. It's about the
millions of lives that would be touched and, in some cases, saved by making private health insurance more
secure and more affordable.
So at stake right now is not just our ability to solve this problem, but our ability to solve any problem. The
American people want to know if it's still possible for Washington to look out for their interests and their
future. They are waiting for us to act. They are waiting for us to lead. And as long as I hold this office, I
intend to provide that leadership. I do not know how this plays politically, but I know it's right. And so I ask
Congress to finish its work, and I look forward to signing this reform into law.
Thank you very much, everybody. Let's get it done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329667" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Cyber_Infrastructure_US.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Cyber%20Infrastructure%20US.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Securing U.S. Cyber Infrastructure

Delivered 29 May 2009, East Room, White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

We meet today at a transformational moment -- a moment in history when our interconnected
world presents us, at once, with great promise but also great peril.
Now, over the past four months my Administration has taken decisive steps to seize the
promise and confront these perils. We're working to recover from a global recession while
laying a new foundation for lasting prosperity. We're strengthening our armed forces as they
fight two wars, at the same time we're renewing American leadership to confront
unconventional challenges, from nuclear proliferation to terrorism, from climate change to
pandemic disease. And we're bringing to government -- and to this White House -unprecedented transparency and accountability and new ways for Americans to participate in
their democracy.
But none of this progress would be possible, and none of these 21st century challenges can be
fully met, without America's digital infrastructure -- the backbone that underpins a prosperous
economy and a strong military and an open and efficient government. Without that foundation
we can't get the job done.
It's long been said that the revolutions in communications and information technology have
given birth to a virtual world. But make no mistake: This world -- cyberspace -- is a world that
we depend on every single day. It's our hardware and our software, our desktops and laptops
and cell phones and Blackberries that have become woven into every aspect of our lives.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It's the broadband networks beneath us and the wireless signals around us, the local networks
in our schools and hospitals and businesses, and the massive grids that power our nation. It's
the classified military and intelligence networks that keep us safe, and the World Wide Web
that has made us more interconnected than at any time in human history.
So cyberspace is real. And so are the risks that come with it.
It's the great irony of our Information Age -- the very technologies that empower us to create
and to build also empower those who would disrupt and destroy. And this paradox -- seen and
unseen -- is something that we experience every day.
It's about the privacy and the economic security of American families. We rely on the Internet
to pay our bills, to bank, to shop, to file our taxes. But we've had to learn a whole new
vocabulary just to stay ahead of the cyber criminals who would do us harm: spyware and
malware and spoofing and phishing and botnets. Millions of Americans have been victimized,
their privacy violated, their identities stolen, their lives upended, and their wallets
emptied. According to one survey, in the past two years alone cyber crime has cost Americans
more than 8 billion dollars.
I know how it feels to have privacy violated because it has happened to me and the people
around me. It's no secret that my presidential campaign harnessed the Internet and
technology to transform our politics. What isn't widely known is that during the general
election hackers managed to penetrate our computer systems. To all of you who donated to
our campaign, I want you to all rest assured, our fundraising website was untouched. So your
confidential personal and financial information was protected.
But between August and October, hackers gained access to emails and a range of campaign
files, from policy position papers to travel plans. And we worked closely with the CIA, with the
FBI and the Secret Service, and hired security consultants to restore the security of our
systems. It was a powerful reminder: In this Information Age, one of your greatest strengths
-- in our case, our ability to communicate to a wide range of supporters through the Internet - could also be one of your greatest vulnerabilities.
This is a matter, as well, of America's economic competitiveness. The small businesswoman in
St. Louis, the bond trader in the New York Stock Exchange, the workers at a global shipping
company in Memphis, the young entrepreneur in Silicon Valley -- they all need the networks
to make the next payroll, the next trade, the next delivery, the next great breakthrough. Ecommerce alone last year accounted for some 132 billion dollars in retail sales.
But every day we see waves of cyber thieves trolling for sensitive information -- the
disgruntled employee on the inside, the lone hacker a thousand miles away, organized crime,
the industrial spy and, increasingly, foreign intelligence services. In one brazen act last year,
thieves used stolen credit card information to steal millions of dollars from 130 ATM machines
in 49 cities around the world -- and they did it in just 30 minutes.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
A single employee of an American company was convicted of stealing intellectual property
reportedly worth 400 million dollars. It's been estimated that last year alone cyber criminals
stole intellectual property from businesses worldwide worth up to 1 trillion dollars.
In short, America's economic prosperity in the 21st century will depend on cybersecurity.
And this is also a matter of public safety and national security. We count on computer
networks to deliver our oil and gas, our power and our water. We rely on them for public
transportation and air traffic control. Yet we know that cyber intruders have probed our
electrical grid and that in other countries cyber attacks have plunged entire cities into
darkness.
Our technological advantage is a key to America's military dominance. But our defense and
military networks are under constant attack. Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups have spoken
of their desire to unleash a cyber attack on our country -- attacks that are harder to detect
and harder to defend against. Indeed, in today's world, acts of terror could come not only
from a few extremists in suicide vests but from a few key strokes on the computer -- a
weapon of mass disruption.
In one of the most serious cyber incidents to date against our military networks, several
thousand computers were infected last year by malicious software -- malware. And while no
sensitive information was compromised, our troops and defense personnel had to give up
those external memory devices -- thumb drives -- changing the way they used their
computers every day.
And last year we had a glimpse of the future face of war. As Russian tanks rolled into Georgia,
cyber attacks crippled Georgian government websites. The terrorists that sowed so much
death and destruction in Mumbai relied not only on guns and grenades but also on GPS and
phones using voice-over-the-Internet.
For all these reasons, it's now clear this cyber threat is one of the most serious economic and
national security challenges we face as a nation.
It's also clear that we're not as prepared as we should be, as a government or as a country.
In recent years, some progress has been made at the federal level. But just as we failed in the
past to invest in our physical infrastructure -- our roads, our bridges and rails -- we've failed
to invest in the security of our digital infrastructure.
No single official oversees cybersecurity policy across the federal government, and no single
agency has the responsibility or authority to match the scope and scale of the
challenge. Indeed, when it comes to cybersecurity, federal agencies have overlapping
missions and don't coordinate and communicate nearly as well as they should -- with each
other or with the private sector. We saw this in the disorganized response to Conficker, the
Internet worm that in recent months has infected millions of computers around the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
This status quo is no longer acceptable -- not when there's so much at stake. We can and we
must do better.
And that's why shortly after taking office I directed my National Security Council and
Homeland Security Council to conduct a top-to-bottom review of the federal government's
efforts to defend our information and communications infrastructure and to recommend the
best way to ensure that these networks are able to secure our networks as well as our
prosperity.
Our review was open and transparent. I want to acknowledge, Melissa Hathaway -- who is
here -- who is the Acting Senior Director for Cyberspace on our National Security Council, who
led the review team, as well as the Center for Strategic and International Studies bipartisan
Commission on Cybersecurity, and all who were part of our 60-day review team. They listened
to a wide variety of groups, many of which are represented here today and I want to thank for
their input: industry and academia, civil liberties and private -- privacy advocates. We listened
to every level and branch of government -- from local to state to federal, civilian, military,
homeland as well as intelligence, Congress and international partners, as well. I consulted
with my national security teams, my homeland security teams, and my economic advisors.
Today I'm releasing a report on our review, and can announce that my Administration will
pursue a new comprehensive approach to securing America's digital infrastructure.
This new approach starts at the top, with this commitment from me: From now on, our digital
infrastructure -- the networks and computers we depend on every day -- will be treated as
they should be: as a strategic national asset. Protecting this infrastructure will be a national
security priority. We will ensure that these networks are secure, trustworthy and resilient. We
will deter, prevent, detect, and defend against attacks and recover quickly from any
disruptions or damage.
To give these efforts the high-level focus and attention they deserve -- and as part of the
new, single National Security Staff announced this week -- I'm creating a new office here at
the White House that will be led by the Cybersecurity Coordinator. Because of the critical
importance of this work, I will personally select this official. I'll depend on this official in all
matters relating to cybersecurity, and this official will have my full support and regular access
to me as we confront these challenges.
Today, I want to focus on the important responsibilities this office will fulfill: orchestrating and
integrating all cybersecurity policies for the government; working closely with the Office of
Management and Budget to ensure agency budgets reflect those priorities; and, in the event
of major cyber incident or attack, coordinating our response.
To ensure that federal cyber policies enhance our security and our prosperity, my
Cybersecurity Coordinator will be a member of the National Security Staff as well as the staff
of my National Economic Council.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
To ensure that policies keep faith with our fundamental values, this office will also include an
official with a portfolio specifically dedicated to safeguarding the privacy and civil liberties of
the American people.
There's much work to be done, and the report we're releasing today outlines a range of
actions that we will pursue in five key areas.
First, working in partnership with the communities represented here today, we will develop a
new comprehensive strategy to secure America's information and communications networks.
To ensure a coordinated approach across government, my Cybersecurity Coordinator will work
closely with my Chief Technology Officer, Aneesh Chopra, and my Chief Information Officer,
Vivek Kundra. To ensure accountability in federal agencies, cybersecurity will be designated as
one of my key management priorities. Clear milestones and performances metrics will
measure progress. And as we develop our strategy, we will be open and transparent, which is
why you'll find today's report and a wealth of related information on our Web site,
www.whitehouse.gov.
Second, we will work with all the key players -- including state and local governments and the
private sector -- to ensure an organized and unified response to future cyber incidents. Given
the enormous damage that can be caused by even a single cyber attack, ad hoc responses will
not do. Nor is it sufficient to simply strengthen our defenses after incidents or attacks
occur. Just as we do for natural disasters, we have to have plans and resources in place
beforehand -- sharing information, issuing warnings and ensuring a coordinated response.
Third, we will strengthen the public/private partnerships that are critical to this endeavor. The
vast majority of our critical information infrastructure in the United States is owned and
operated by the private sector. So let me be very clear: My Administration will not dictate
security standards for private companies. On the contrary, we will collaborate with industry to
find technology solutions that ensure our security and promote prosperity.
Fourth, we will continue to invest in the cutting-edge research and development necessary for
the innovation and discovery we need to meet the digital challenges of our time. And that's
why my Administration is making major investments in our information infrastructure: laying
broadband lines to every corner of America; building a smart electric grid to deliver energy
more efficiently; pursuing a next generation of air traffic control systems; and moving to
electronic health records, with privacy protections, to reduce costs and save lives.
And finally, we will begin a national campaign to promote cybersecurity awareness and digital
literacy from our boardrooms to our classrooms, and to build a digital workforce for the 21st
century. And that's why we're making a new commitment to education in math and science,
and historic investments in science and research and development. Because it's not enough
for our children and students to master today's technologies -- social networking and emailing and texting and blogging -- we need them to pioneer the technologies that will allow

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
us to work effectively through these new media and allow us to prosper in the future. So
these are the things we will do.
Let me also be clear about what we will not do. Our pursuit of cybersecurity will not -- I
repeat, will not include -- monitoring private sector networks or Internet traffic.
We will preserve and protect the personal privacy and civil liberties that we cherish as
Americans. Indeed, I remain firmly committed to net neutrality so we can keep the Internet as
it should be -- open and free.
The task I have described will not be easy. Some 1.5 billion people around the world are
already online, and more are logging on every day. Groups and governments are sharpening
their cyber capabilities. Protecting our prosperity and security in this globalized world is going
to be a long, difficult struggle demanding patience and persistence over many years.
But we need to remember: We're only at the beginning. The epochs of history are long -- the
Agricultural Revolution; the Industrial Revolution. By comparison, our Information Age is still
in its infancy. We're only at Web 2.0. Now our virtual world is going viral. And we've only just
begun to explore the next generation of technologies that will transform our lives in ways we
can't even begin to imagine.
So a new world awaits -- a world of greater security and greater potential prosperity -- if we
reach for it, if we lead. So long as I'm President of the United States, we will do just that. And
the United States -- the nation that invented the Internet, that launched an information
revolution, that transformed the world -- will do what we did in the 20th century and lead
once more in the 21st.
Thank you very much, everybody.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329675" filename="Barack_Obama_-_DDay_65.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20DDay%2065.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address Marking the 65th Anniversary of D-Day

Delivered 5 June 2009, Normandy, France

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon. Thank you, President Sarkozy, Prime Minister Brown, Prime Minister Harper,
and Prince Charles for being here today. Thank you to our Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
General Eric Shinseki, for making the trip out here to join us. Thanks also to Susan
Eisenhower, whose grandfather began this mission 65 years ago with a simple charge: "Ok,
let's go." And to a World War II veteran who returned home from this war to serve a proud
and distinguished career as a United States Senator and a national leader: Bob Dole.
I'm not the first American President to come and mark this anniversary, and I likely will not be
the last. This is an event that has long brought to this coast both heads of state and grateful
citizens; veterans and their loved ones; the liberated and their liberators. It's been written
about and spoken of and depicted in countless books and films and speeches. And long after
our time on this Earth has passed, one word will still bring forth the pride and awe of men and
women who will never meet the heroes who sit before us: D-Day.
Why is this? Of all the battles in all the wars across the span of human history, why does this
day hold such a revered place in our memory? What is it about the struggle that took place
on the sands a few short steps from here that brings us back to remember year after year
after year?
Part of it, I think, is the size of the odds that weighed against success. For three centuries, no
invader had ever been able to cross the English Channel into Normandy. And it had never
been more difficult than in 1944.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
That was the year that Hitler ordered his top field marshal to fortify the Atlantic Wall against a
seaborne invasion. From the tip of Norway to southern France, the Nazis lined steep cliffs
with machine guns and artillery. Low-lying areas were flooded to block passage. Sharpened
poles awaited paratroopers. Mines were laid on the beaches and beneath the water. And by
the time of the invasion, half a million Germans waited for the Allies along the coast between
Holland and northern France.
At dawn on June 6th, the Allies came. The best chance for victory had been for the British
Royal Air Corps to take out the guns on the cliffs while airborne divisions parachuted behind
enemy lines. But all did not go according to plan. Paratroopers landed miles from their mark,
while the fog and clouds prevented Allied planes from destroying the guns on the cliffs. So
when the ships landed here at Omaha, an unimaginable hell rained down on the men inside.
Many never made it out of the boats.
And yet, despite all of this, one by one, the Allied forces made their way to shore -- here, and
at Utah and Juno; Gold and Sword. They were American, British, and Canadian. Soon, the
paratroopers found each other and fought their way back. The Rangers scaled the cliffs. And
by the end of the day, against all odds, the ground on which we stand was free once more.
The sheer improbability of this victory is part of what makes D-Day so memorable. It also
arises from the clarity of purpose with which this war was waged.
We live in a world of competing beliefs and claims about what is true. It's a world of varied
religions and cultures and forms of government. In such a world, it's all too rare for a
struggle to emerge that speaks to something universal about humanity.
The Second World War did that. No man who shed blood or lost a brother would say that war
is good. But all know that this war was essential. For what we faced in Nazi totalitarianism
was not just a battle of competing interests. It was a competing vision of humanity. Nazi
ideology sought to subjugate and humiliate and exterminate. It perpetrated murder on a
massive scale, fueled by a hatred of those who were deemed different and therefore inferior.
It was evil.
The nations that joined together to defeat Hitler's Reich were not perfect. They had made
their share of mistakes, had not always agreed with one another on every issue. But
whatever God we prayed to, whatever our differences, we knew that the evil we faced had to
be stopped. Citizens of all faiths and of no faith came to believe that we could not remain as
bystanders to the savage perpetration of death and destruction. And so we joined and sent
our sons to fight and often die so that men and women they never met might know what it is
to be free.
In America, it was an endeavor that inspired a nation to action. A President who asked his
country to pray on D-Day also asked its citizens to serve and sacrifice to make the invasion
possible.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
On farms and in factories, millions of men and women worked three shifts a day, month after
month, year after year. Trucks and tanks came from plants in Michigan and Indiana, New
York and Illinois. Bombers and fighter planes rolled off assembly lines in Ohio and Kansas,
where my grandmother did her part as an inspector. Shipyards on both coasts produced the
largest fleet in history, including the landing craft from New Orleans that eventually made it
here to Omaha.
But despite all the years of planning and preparation, despite the inspiration of our leaders,
the skill of our generals, the strength of our firepower and the unyielding support from our
home front, the outcome of the entire struggle would ultimately rest on the success of one
day in June.
Lyndon Johnson once said that there are certain moments when "¼history and fate meet at a
single time in a single place to shape a turning point in man's unending search for freedom."
D-Day was such a moment. One newspaper noted that "we have come to the hour for which
we were born." Had the Allies failed here, Hitler's occupation of this continent might have
continued indefinitely. Instead, victory here secured a foothold in France. It opened a path to
Berlin. It made possible the achievements that followed the liberation of Europe: the
Marshall Plan, the NATO alliance, the shared prosperity and security that flowed from each.
It was unknowable then, but so much of the progress that would define the 20th century, on
both sides of the Atlantic, came down to the battle for a slice of beach only six miles long and
two miles wide.
More particularly, it came down to the men who landed here -- those who now rest in this
place for eternity, and those who are with us here today. Perhaps more than any other
reason, you, the veterans of that landing, are why we still remember what happened on DDay. You're why we keep coming back.
For you remind us that in the end, human destiny is not determined by forces beyond our
control. You remind us that our future is not shaped by mere chance or circumstance. Our
history has always been the sum total of the choices made and the actions taken by each
individual man and woman. It has always been up to us.
You could have done what Hitler believed you would do when you arrived here. In the face of
a merciless assault from these cliffs, you could have idled the boats offshore. Amid a barrage
of tracer bullets that lit the night sky, you could have stayed in those planes. You could have
hid in the hedgerows or waited behind the seawall. You could have done only what was
necessary to ensure your own survival.
But that's not what you did. That's not the story you told on D-Day. Your story was written
by men like Zane Schlemmer of the 82nd Airborne, who parachuted into a dark marsh, far
from his objective and his men.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Lost and alone, he still managed to fight his way through the gunfire and help liberate the
town in which he landed -- a town where a street now bears his name.
It's a story written by men like Anthony Ruggiero, an Army Ranger who saw half the men on
his landing craft drown when it was hit by shellfire just a thousand yards off this beach. He
spent three hours in freezing water, and was one of only 90 Rangers to survive out of the 225
who were sent to scale the cliffs.
And it's a story written by so many who are no longer with us, like Carlton Barrett. Private
Barrett was only supposed to serve as a guide for the 1st Infantry Division, but he instead
became one of its heroes. After wading ashore in neck-deep water, he returned to the water
again and again and again to save his wounded and drowning comrades. And under the
heaviest possible enemy fire, he carried them to safety. He carried them in his own arms.
This is the story of the Allied victory. It's the legend of units like Easy Company and the AllAmerican 82nd. It's the tale of the British people, whose courage during the Blitz forced Hitler
to call off the invasion of England; the Canadians, who came even though they were never
attacked; the Russians, who sustained some of the war's heaviest casualties on the Eastern
front; and all those French men and women who would rather have died resisting tyranny
than lived within its grasp.
It is the memories that have been passed on to so many of us about the service or sacrifice of
a friend or relative. For me, it is my grandfather, Stanley Dunham, who arrived on this beach
six weeks after D-Day and marched across Europe in Patton's Army. And it is my great uncle
who was part of the first American division to reach and liberate a Nazi concentration camp.
His name is Charles Payne, and I'm so proud that he's with us here today.
I know this trip doesn't get any easier as the years pass, but for those of you who make it,
there's nothing that could keep you away. One such veteran, a man named Jim Norene, was
a member of the 502nd Parachute Infantry Division of the 101st Airborne. Last night, after
visiting this cemetery for one last time, he passed away in his sleep. Jim was gravely ill when
he left his home, and he knew that he might not return. But just as he did 65 years ago, he
came anyway. May he now rest in peace with the boys he once bled with, and may his family
always find solace in the heroism he showed here.
In the end, Jim Norene came back to Normandy for the same reason we all come back. He
came for the reason articulated by Howard Huebner, another former paratrooper who is here
with us today. When asked why he made the trip, Howard said, "It's important that we tell
our stories. It doesn't have to be something big¼just a little story about what happened -- so
people don't forget."
So people don't forget.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Friends and veterans, we cannot forget. What we must not forget is that D-Day was a time
and a place where the bravery and the selflessness of a few was able to change the course of
an entire century. At an hour of maximum danger, amid the bleakest of circumstances, men
who thought themselves ordinary found within themselves the ability to do something
extraordinary. They fought for their moms and sweethearts back home, for the fellow
warriors they came to know as brothers. And they fought out of a simple sense of duty -- a
duty sustained by the same ideals for which their countrymen had once fought and bled for
over two centuries.
That is the story of Normandy -- but also the story of America; of the Minutemen who
gathered on a green in Lexington; of the Union boys from Maine who repelled a charge at
Gettysburg; of the men who gave their last full measure of devotion at Inchon and Khe San;
of all the young men and women whose valor and goodness still carry forward this legacy of
service and sacrifice. It's a story that has never come easy, but one that always gives us
hope. For as we face down the hardships and struggles of our time, and arrive at that hour
for which we were born, we cannot help but draw strength from those moments in history
when the best among us were somehow able to swallow their fears and secure a beachhead
on an unforgiving shore.
To those men who achieved that victory 65 years ago, we thank you for your service.
May God bless you, and may God bless the memory of all those who rest here.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329951" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Defense_Dept_Personnel.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Defense%20Dept%20Personnel.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Department of Defense Personnel Announcement

Delivered 30 May 2011, Rose Garden, White House

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

All right. Good morning. In a few moments, I’ll be joining members of our armed forces, their
families, and veterans for the Memorial Day observance at Arlington. There, and across our
nation, we’ll pause to honor all those who’ve given their last full measure of devotion in
defense of our country. Theirs was the ultimate sacrifice, but it is one that every man and
woman who wears America’s uniform is prepared to make -- so that we can live free.
The men and women of our armed forces are the best our nation has to offer, and they
deserve nothing but the absolute best in return. And that includes leaders who will guide
them, and support their families, with wisdom and strength and compassion. And that’s what I
expect as Commander-in-Chief as we work to keep our nation secure and our military the
finest in the world.
I found those qualities in Leon Panetta, who I announced last month as my choice to succeed
our outstanding Secretary of Defense, Bob Gates, who I thank for joining us today. And I
found these qualities in the leaders who will complete our team at the Pentagon and whom
I’m proud to announce today -- General Martin Dempsey as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of
Staff, Admiral James Winnefeld as the Vice Chairman, and to succeed General Dempsey as
Chief of Staff of the Army, General Ray Odierno.
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff is the principal military advisor to me and my
national security team, including the Secretary of Defense. Since taking office, I’ve been very
grateful for the leadership of the current Chairman, Admiral Mike Mullen, and the Vice
Chairman, General Jim “Hoss” Cartwright.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
These two men have served our nation with distinction for decades, and I look forward to
paying tribute to their lives of service in the months ahead.
Today, I’ll simply say that, like President Bush before me, I’ve deeply valued Mike’s
professional steadiness and his personal integrity. On his watch, our military forces have
excelled across the whole spectrum of missions, from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan to relief
efforts after the Haiti earthquake. He’s helped revitalize NATO, reset our relations with Russia,
and steer our relationship with Pakistan and China. And I believe that history will also record
Mike Mullen as the Chairman who said what he believed was right and declared that no one in
uniform should ever have to sacrifice their integrity to serve their country.
I’ve also benefited enormously from the advice and counsel of Hoss Cartwright. Hoss is that
rare combination of technical expert -- from cyber to missile defense -- and strategic thinker,
whether it was updating our nuclear posture or preparing our military for 21st-century
missions. I’ll always be personally grateful to Hoss for his friendship and partnership. And as
he concludes four decades of service in the Marine Corps that he loves, he can do so knowing
that our nation is more secure, and our military is stronger, because of his remarkable career.
And I know that Michelle joins me in saluting Deborah Mullen and Sandee Cartwright for their
decades of extraordinary service, especially as champions of our inspiring military families.
With the advice and consent of the Senate, it is our hope and expectation that Leon Panetta
will soon take the reigns as Secretary of Defense. General Cartwright’s term ends this
summer; Admiral Mullen’s term ends this fall. I’m announcing my choice for their successors
today because it’s essential that this transition be seamless and that we stay focused on the
urgent national security challenges before us. And I want to thank Deputy Secretary of
Defense Bill Lynn for the continuity that he’ll provide during this transition.
With nearly 40 years in uniform, Martin Dempsey is one of our nation’s most respected -- and
combat-tested -- generals. In Iraq, he led our soldiers against a brutal insurgency. Having
trained Iraqi forces, he knows that nations must ultimately take responsibility for their own
security. Having served as acting commander of Central Command, he understands that in
Iraq and Afghanistan security gains and political progress must go hand in hand. And just as
he challenged the Army to embrace new doctrine and tactics, I expect him to push all our
forces to continue adapting and innovating to be ready for the missions of today and
tomorrow.
I was proud to nominate Marty as Army Chief of Staff, and I realized he only assumed that
position last month. Marty, your tenure as Chief may go down as one of the shortest in Army
history. But it’s your lifetime of accomplishment that brings us here today. And I thank you for
your willingness to take on this new assignment, along with your wife Deanie and your three
children, all of whom have served in the Army.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Today, I want every one of our men and women in uniform to hear the words that you spoke
to your soldiers on your first day as Chief, because it’s our shared message to all who serve,
especially our troops in harm’s way: “We will provide whatever it takes to achieve our
objectives in the current fight.”
As Vice Chairman, Admiral Sandy Winnefeld will draw on more than 30 years of distinguished
service. Under his command, fighters from the aircraft carrier USS Enterprise pounded Taliban
positions in the weeks after 9/11 and his carrier strike group played a critical role in air
operations over Iraq. Having served as a NATO commander, Sandy is well known to our allies.
Having served on the Joint Staff, he is known and trusted here at the White House.
Most recently, as head of Northern Command, Sandy’s been responsible for the defense of our
homeland and support to states and communities in times of crisis, such as the recent
tornadoes and the floods along the Mississippi. He’s supported our Mexican partners in their
fight against the cartels and our Japanese allies in the response to their nuclear emergency.
So Sandy knows that we have to be prepared for the full range of challenges. Sandy, I thank
you and your wife Mary and your two sons for your continued service.
I’ve selected General Dempsey and Admiral Winnefeld because of their record -- and potential
-- as individuals. But I’ve also selected them because they will make an extraordinary team -despite their competing loyalties to Army and Navy. Between them, they bring deep
experience in virtually every domain -- land, air, space, sea, cyber. Both of them have the
respect and the trust of our troops on the frontlines, our friends in Congress, and allies and
partners abroad. And both of them have my full confidence.
They both have something else. For the first time, the Chairman and Vice Chairman will have
the experience of leading combat operations in the years since 9/11. Two moments in
particular speak to this leadership. On the morning of September 11, 2001, the Enterprise
was returning home from the Persian Gulf when word came of the attacks. Rather than wait
for orders, Sandy took the initiative, reversed course, and put his ship and aircraft within
range of Afghanistan by the next morning, setting the stage for the strikes that followed. A
few years later, as Marty’s 1st Armored Division was rotating out of Iraq, he suddenly got new
orders. He turned his division around, shifted to new parts of Iraq, and defeated an insurgent
uprising -- a remarkable maneuver that has entered the annals of Army history.
And while I know that folks across the Army are proud to see one of their own selected as
Chairman, I also know this means losing their new Chief in a time of war. And that’s why, for
the next Army Chief of Staff, I’m nominating one of the Army’s most accomplished soldiers -and one of the tallest -- General Ray Odierno. In three pivotal deployments to Iraq, he
commanded the troops that captured Saddam Hussein, partnered with General Petraeus to
help bring down the violence, and then transferred responsibility to Iraqi forces, allowing us to
remove some 100,000 American troops and end our combat mission.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
After years on the frontlines, Ray understands what the Army must do -- to prevail in today’s
wars, to prepare for the future, and to preserve the readiness of the soldiers and families who
are the strength of America’s families. And we’re fortunate that Ray’s dedication to our
soldiers is shared by his wife Linda and their family, including their son Tony, a combat
veteran and advocate for his fellow wounded warriors.
I urge our friends in the Senate to confirm these outstanding individuals as swiftly as possible.
They’re innovative, flexible, focused on the future, and deeply devoted to our troops and their
families. General Dempsey, Admiral Winnefeld, we have much to do -- from bringing our
troops home from Iraq to beginning to reduce our forces in Afghanistan this summer and
transitioning to Afghan lead; from defeating al Qaeda to protecting the Libyan people. All this,
even as we make difficult budget decisions while keeping our military the finest fighting force
in the world.
Above all, as Commander-in-Chief, I’ll be looking to you, and the rest of the Joint Chiefs, for
what I value most in my advisors -- your honest, unvarnished advice, and the full range of
options, especially when it comes to our most solemn obligation: protecting the lives of our
brave men and women in uniform. We have no greater responsibility, as we are reminded
today when we honor all those who sacrificed so that we can enjoy the blessings of freedom.
So, again, to Marty, Sandy, and Ray, as well as your families, thank you for your patriotic
service and your readiness to lead once more.
Thank you very much, everybody.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329779" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Democrat_Caucus_Health_Care.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Democrat%20Caucus%20Health%20Care.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
To House Democratic Caucus on Health Care Reform Bill
delivered 20 March 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you! Everybody, please have a set.
To Leader Reid, to Steny Hoyer, John Larson, Xavier Becerra, Jim Clyburn, Chris Van Hollen,
to an extraordinary leader and extraordinary Speaker of the House, Nancy Pelosi, and to all
the members here today, thank you very much for having me. Thanks for having me and
thanks for your tireless efforts waged on behalf of health insurance reform in this country.
I have the great pleasure of having a really nice library at the White House. And I was tooling
through some of the writings of some previous Presidents and I came upon this quote by
Abraham Lincoln: “I am not bound to win, but I’m bound to be true. I’m not bound to
succeed, but I’m bound to live up to what light I have.”
This debate has been a difficult debate. This process has been a difficult process. And this
year has been a difficult year for the American people. When I was sworn in, we were in the
midst of the worst recession since the Great Depression. Eight hundred thousand people per
month were losing their jobs. Millions of people were losing their health insurance. And the
financial system was on the verge of collapse.
And this body has taken on some of the toughest votes and some of the toughest decisions in
the history of Congress. Not because you were bound to win, but because you were bound to
be true. Because each and every one of you made a decision that at a moment of such
urgency, it was less important to measure what the polls said than to measure what was
right.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
A year later, we’re in different circumstances. Because of the actions that you’ve taken, the
financial system has stabilized. The stock market has stabilized. Businesses are starting to
invest again. The economy, instead of contracting, is now growing again. There are signs
that people are going to start hiring again. There’s still tremendous hardship all across the
country, but there is a sense that we are making progress -- because of you.
But even before this crisis, each and every one of us knew that there were millions of people
across America who were living their own quiet crises. Maybe because they had a child who
had a preexisting condition and no matter how desperate they were, no matter what
insurance company they called, they couldn’t get coverage for that child. Maybe it was
somebody who had been forced into early retirement, in their 50s not yet eligible for
Medicare, and they couldn’t find a job and they couldn’t find health insurance, despite the fact
that they had some sort of chronic condition that had to be tended to.
Every single one of you at some point before you arrived in Congress and after you arrived in
Congress have met constituents with heart-breaking stories. And you’ve looked them in the
eye and you’ve said, we’re going to do something about it -- that’s why I want to go to
Congress.
And now, we’re on the threshold of doing something about it. We’re a day away. After a year
of debate, after every argument has been made, by just about everybody, we’re 24 hours
away.
As some of you know, I’m not somebody who spends a lot of time surfing the cable channels,
but I’m not completely in the bubble. I have a sense of what the coverage has been, and
mostly it’s an obsession with “What will this mean for the Democratic Party? What will this
mean for the President’s polls? How will this play out in November? Is this good or is this bad
for the Democratic majority? What does it mean for those swing districts?”
And I noticed that there’s been a lot of friendly advice offered all across town. Mitch
McConnell, John Boehner, Karl Rove -- they’re all warning you of the horrendous impact if you
support this legislation. Now, it could be that they are suddenly having a change of heart and
they are deeply concerned about their Democratic friends. They are giving you the best
possible advice in order to assure that Nancy Pelosi remains Speaker and Harry Reid remains
Leader and that all of you keep your seats. That’s a possibility.
But it may also be possible that they realize after health reform passes and I sign that
legislation into law, that it’s going to be a little harder to mischaracterize what this effort has
been all about.
Because this year, small businesses will start getting tax credits so that they can offer health
insurance to employees who currently don’t have it. Because this year, those same parents
who are worried about getting coverage for their children with preexisting conditions now are
assured that insurance companies have to give them coverage -- this year.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Because this year, insurance companies won’t suddenly be able to drop your coverage when
you get sick -- or impose lifetime limits or restrictive limits on the coverage that you have.
Maybe they know that this year, for the first time, young people will be able to stay on their
parents’ health insurance until they’re 26 years old and they’re thinking that just might be
popular all across the country.
And what they also know is what won’t happen. They know that after this legislation passes
and after I sign this bill, lo and behold nobody is pulling the plug on Granny. It turns out that
in fact people who like their health insurance are going to be able to keep their health
insurance; that there’s no government takeover. People will discover that if they like their
doctor, they’ll be keeping their doctor. In fact, they’re more likely to keep their doctor
because of a stronger system.
It’ll turn out that this piece of historic legislation is built on the private insurance system that
we have now and runs straight down the center of American political thought. It turns out
this is a bill that tracks the recommendations not just of Democrat Tom Daschle, but also
Republicans Bob Dole and Howard Baker; that this is a middle-of-the-road bill that is designed
to help the American people in an area of their lives where they urgently need help.
Now, there are some who wanted a single-payer government-run system. That’s not this bill.
The Republicans wanted what I called the “foxes guard the henhouse approach” in which we
further deregulate the insurance companies and let them run wild, the notion being somehow
that that was going to lower costs for the American people. I don’t know a serious health care
economist who buys that idea, but that was their concept. And we rejected that, because
what we said was we want to create a system in which health care is working not for
insurance companies but it’s working for the American people, it’s working for middle class
families.
So what did we do? What is the essence of this legislation? Number one, this is the toughest
insurance reforms in history. We are making sure that the system of private insurance works
for ordinary families. A prescription -- this is a patient’s bill of rights on steroids. So many of
you individually have worked on these insurance reforms -- they are in this package -- to
make sure that families are getting a fair deal; that if they’re paying a premium, that they’re
getting a good service in return; making sure that employers, if they are paying premiums for
their employees, that their employees are getting the coverage that they expect; that
insurance companies are not going to game the system with fine print and rescissions and
dropping people when they need it most, but instead are going to have to abide by some basic
rules of the road that exemplify a sense of fairness and good value. That’s number one.
The second thing this does is it creates a pool, a marketplace, where individuals and small
businesses, who right now are having a terrible time out there getting health insurance, are
going to be able to purchase health insurance as part of a big group -- just like federal
employees, just like members of Congress. They are now going to be part of a pool that can
negotiate for better rates, better quality, more competition.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that’s why the Congressional Budget Office says this will lower people’s rates for
comparable plans by 14 to 20 percent. That’s not my numbers -- that’s the Congressional
Budget Office’s numbers. So that people will have choice and competition just like members
of Congress have choice and competition.
Number three, if people still can’t afford it we’re going to provide them some tax credits -- the
biggest tax cut for small businesses and working families when it comes to health care in
history.
And number four, this is the biggest reduction in our deficit since the Budget Balance Act -one of the biggest deficit reduction measures in history -- over $1.3 trillion that will help put
us on the path of fiscal responsibility.
And that’s before we count all the game-changing measures that are going to assure, for
example, that instead of having five tests when you go to the doctor you just get one; that
the delivery system is working for patients, not just working for billings. And everybody who’s
looked at it says that every single good idea to bend the cost curve and start actually reducing
health care costs are in this bill.
So that’s what this effort is all about. Toughest insurance reforms in history. A marketplace
so people have choice and competition who right now don’t have it and are seeing their
premiums go up 20, 30, 40, 50 percent. Reductions in the cost of health care for millions of
American families, including those who have health insurance. The Business Roundtable did
their own study and said that this would potentially save employers $3,000 per employee on
their health care because of the measures in this legislation.
And by the way, not only does it reduce the deficit -- we pay for it responsibly in ways that
the other side of the aisle that talks a lot about fiscal responsibility but doesn’t seem to be
able to walk the walk can’t claim when it comes to their prescription drug bill. We are actually
doing it. This is paid for and will not add a dime to the deficit -- it will reduce the deficit.
Now, is this bill perfect? Of course not. Will this solve every single problem in our health care
system right away? No. There are all kinds of ideas that many of you have that aren’t
included in this legislation. I know that there has been discussion, for example, of how we’re
going to deal with regional disparities and I know that there was a meeting with Secretary
Sebelius to assure that we can continue to try to make sure that we’ve got a system that
gives people the best bang for their buck.
So this is not -- there are all kinds of things that many of you would like to see that isn’t in
this legislation. There are some things I’d like to see that’s not in this legislation. But is this
the single most important step that we have taken on health care since Medicare?
Absolutely. Is this the most important piece of domestic legislation in terms of giving a break
to hardworking middle class families out there since Medicare? Absolutely. Is this a vast
improvement over the status quo? Absolutely.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I still know this is a tough vote, though. I know this is a tough vote. I’ve talked to
many of you individually. And I have to say that if you honestly believe in your heart of
hearts, in your conscience, that this is not an improvement over the status quo; if despite all
the information that’s out there that says that without serious reform efforts like this one
people’s premiums are going to double over the next five or 10 years, that folks are going to
keep on getting letters from their insurance companies saying that their premium just went up
40 or 50 percent; if you think that somehow it’s okay that we have millions of hardworking
Americans who can’t get health care and that it’s all right, it’s acceptable, in the wealthiest
nation on Earth that there are children with chronic illnesses that can’t get the care that they
need -- if you think that the system is working for ordinary Americans rather than the
insurance companies, then you should vote no on this bill. If you can honestly say that, then
you shouldn’t support it. You’re here to represent your constituencies and if you think your
constituencies honestly wouldn’t be helped, you shouldn’t vote for this.
But if you agree that the system is not working for ordinary families, if you’ve heard the same
stories that I’ve heard everywhere, all across the country, then help us fix this system. Don't
do it for me. Don’t do it for Nancy Pelosi or Harry Reid. Do it for all those people out there
who are struggling.
Some of you know I get 10 letters a day that I read out of the 40,000 that we receive.
Started reading some of the ones that I got this morning. “Dear President Obama, my
daughter, a wonderful person, lost her job. She has no health insurance. She had a blood
clot in her brain. She’s now disabled, can’t get care.” “Dear President Obama, I don’t yet
qualify for Medicare. COBRA is about to run out. I am desperate, don't know what to do.”
Do it for them. Do it for people who are really scared right now through no fault of their own,
who’ve played by the rules, who’ve done all the right things, and have suddenly found out
that because of an accident, because of an ailment, they’re about to lose their house; or they
can’t provide the help to their kids that they need; or they’re a small business who up until
now has always taken pride in providing care for their workers and it turns out that they just
can’t afford to do it anymore and they’ve having to make a decision about do I keep providing
health insurance for my workers or do I just drop their coverage or do I not hire some people
because I simply can’t afford it -- it’s all being gobbled up by the insurance companies.
Don’t do it for me. Don’t do it for the Democratic Party. Do it for the American people.
They’re the ones who are looking for action right now.
I know this is a tough vote. And I am actually confident -- I’ve talked to some of you
individually -- that it will end up being the smart thing to do politically because I believe that
good policy is good politics. I am convinced that when you go out there and you are standing
tall and you are saying I believe that this is the right thing to do for my constituents and the
right thing to do for America, that ultimately the truth will out.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I had a wonderful conversation with Betsy Markey. I don't know if Betsy is around here.
There she is right there. Betsy is in a tough district. The biggest newspaper is somewhat
conservative, as Betsy described. They weren’t real happy with health care reform. They
were opposed to it. Betsy, despite the pressure, announced that she was in favor of this bill.
And lo and behold, the next day that same newspaper runs an editorial saying, you know
what, we’ve considered this, we’ve looked at the legislation, and we actually are pleased that
Congresswoman Markey is supporting the legislation.
When I see John Boccieri stand up proud with a whole bunch of his constituencies -- in as
tough a district as there is and stand up with a bunch of folks from his district with preexisting
conditions and saying, you know, I don’t know what is going on Washington but I know what’s
going on with these families -- I look at him with pride.
Now, I can’t guarantee that this is good politics. Every one of you know your districts better
than I do. You talk to folks. You’re under enormous pressure. You’re getting robocalls.
You’re getting e-mails that are tying up the communications system. I know the pressure
you’re under. I get a few comments made about me. I don’t know if you’ve noticed. I’ve
been in your shoes. I know what it’s like to take a tough vote.
But what did Lincoln say? “I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true.” Two
generations ago, folks who were sitting in your position, they made a decision -- we are going
to make sure that seniors and the poor have health care coverage that they can count on.
And they did the right thing.
And I’m sure at the time they were making that vote, they weren’t sure how the politics were
either, any more than the people who made the decision to make sure that Social Security
was in place knew how the politics would play out, or folks who passed the civil rights acts
knew how the politics were going to play out. They were not bound to win, but they were
bound to be true.
And now we’ve got middle class Americans, don’t have Medicare, don’t have Medicaid,
watching the employer-based system fray along the edges or being caught in terrible
situations. And the question is, are we going to be true to them?
Sometimes I think about how I got involved in politics. I didn’t think of myself as a potential
politician when I get out of college. I went to work in neighborhoods, working with Catholic
churches in poor neighborhoods in Chicago, trying to figure out how people could get a little
bit of help. And I was skeptical about politics and politicians, just like a lot of Americans are
skeptical about politics and politicians are right now. Because my working assumption was
when push comes to shove, all too often folks in elected office, they’re looking for themselves
and not looking out for the folks who put them there; that there are too many compromises;
that the special interests have too much power; they just got too much clout; there’s too
much big money washing around.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I decided finally to get involved because I realized if I wasn’t willing to step up and be
true to the things I believe in, then the system wouldn’t change. Every single one of you had
that same kind of moment at the beginning of your careers. Maybe it was just listening to
stories in your neighborhood about what was happening to people who’d been laid off of
work. Maybe it was your own family experience, somebody got sick and didn’t have health
care and you said something should change.
Something inspired you to get involved, and something inspired you to be a Democrat instead
of running as a Republican. Because somewhere deep in your heart you said to yourself, I
believe in an America in which we don’t just look out for ourselves, that we don’t just tell
people you’re on your own, that we are proud of our individualism, we are proud of our
liberty, but we also have a sense of neighborliness and a sense of community -- and we are
willing to look out for one another and help people who are vulnerable and help people who
are down on their luck and give them a pathway to success and give them a ladder into the
middle class. That’s why you decided to run.
And now a lot of us have been here a while and everybody here has taken their lumps and
their bruises. And it turns out people have had to make compromises, and you’ve been away
from families for a long time and you’ve missed special events for your kids sometimes. And
maybe there have been times where you asked yourself, why did I ever get involved in politics
in the first place? And maybe things can’t change after all. And when you do something
courageous, it turns out sometimes you may be attacked. And sometimes the very people
you thought you were trying to help may be angry at you and shout at you. And you say to
yourself, maybe that thing that I started with has been lost.
But you know what? Every once in a while, every once in a while a moment comes where you
have a chance to vindicate all those best hopes that you had about yourself, about this
country, where you have a chance to make good on those promises that you made in all those
town meetings and all those constituency breakfasts and all that traveling through the district,
all those people who you looked in the eye and you said, you know what, you’re right, the
system is not working for you and I’m going to make it a little bit better.
And this is one of those moments. This is one of those times where you can honestly say to
yourself, doggone it, this is exactly why I came here. This is why I got into politics. This is
why I got into public service. This is why I’ve made those sacrifices. Because I believe so
deeply in this country and I believe so deeply in this democracy and I’m willing to stand up
even when it’s hard, even when it’s tough.
Every single one of you have made that promise not just to your constituents but to yourself.
And this is the time to make true on that promise. We are not bound to win, but we are
bound to be true. We are not bound to succeed, but we are bound to let whatever light we
have shine. We have been debating health care for decades. It has now been debated for a
year.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is in your hands. It is time to pass health care reform for America, and I am confident that
you are going to do it tomorrow.
Thank you very much, House of Representatives. Let’s get this done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329683" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Dignity_and_Courage_of_Iranians.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Dignity%20and%20Courage%20of%20Iranians.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
On the Courage and Dignity of the People of Iran

Delivered 23 June 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. Today I want to start by addressing three issues, and then I'll
take your questions.
First, I'd like to say a few words about the situation in Iran. The United States and the
international community have been appalled and outraged by the threats, the beatings, and
imprisonments of the last few days. I strongly condemn these unjust actions, and I join with
the American people in mourning each and every innocent life that is lost.
I've made it clear that the United States respects the sovereignty of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, and is not interfering with Iran's affairs. But we must also bear witness to the courage
and the dignity of the Iranian people, and to a remarkable opening within Iranian society. And
we deplore the violence against innocent civilians anywhere that it takes place.
The Iranian people are trying to have a debate about their future. Some in Iran -- Some in the
Iranian government, in particular, are trying to avoid that debate by accusing the United
States and others in the West of instigating protests over the election. These accusations are
patently false. They're an obvious attempt to distract people from what is truly taking place
within Iran's borders. This tired strategy of using old tensions to scapegoat other countries
won't work anymore in Iran. This is not about the United States or the West; this is about the
people of Iran, and the future that they -- and only they -- will choose. The Iranian people can
speak for themselves. That's precisely what's happened in the last few days.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
In 2009, no iron fist is strong enough to shut off the world from bearing witness to peaceful
protests of justice. Despite the Iranian government's efforts to expel journalists and isolate
itself, powerful images and poignant words have made their way to us through cell phones
and computers, and so we've watched what the Iranian people are doing.
This is what we've witnessed.
We've seen the timeless dignity of tens of thousands of Iranians marching in silence. We've
seen people of all ages risk everything to insist that their votes are counted and that their
voices are heard. Above all, we've seen courageous women stand up to the brutality and
threats, and we've experienced the searing image of a woman bleeding to death on the
streets. While this loss is raw and extraordinarily painful, we also know this: Those who stand
up for justice are always on the right side of history.
As I said in Cairo, suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away. The Iranian
people have a universal right to assembly and free speech. If the Iranian government seeks
the respect of the international community, it must respect those rights and heed the will of
its own people. It must govern through consent and not coercion. That's what Iran's own
people are calling for, and the Iranian people will ultimately judge the actions of their own
government.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329851" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Disabled_Veterans_Conference.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Disabled%20Veterans%20Conference.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at the Disabled Veterans of American Conference
delivered 2 August 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

It is -- Thank you. It is a great honor and -- it is true, I will be 49 this week. I have a lot more
gray hair than I did last year.
It is an extraordinary honor to be here. Thank you, Commander Barrera, for your kind
introduction and for your lifetime of service, in the Marines in Vietnam -- but also as a tireless
advocate for your fellow disabled veterans. We are grateful to you. Thank you for everything
that you've done.
I want to thank your great leadership team for welcoming me today: Chairman Ray Dempsey
-- absolutely -- incoming commander Wally Tyson. National adjutant Art Wilson. Judy Hezlep
of the DAV Auxiliary. And your outstanding Executive Director in Washington, Dave Gorman.
And I am pleased to be joined by a decorated Vietnam veteran, wounded warrior, and a
lifetime member of the DAV -- my outstanding Secretary of Veterans Affairs, Ric Shinseki.
Disabled American Veterans, I valued your advice and counsel when I was a senator, when I
co-sponsored the Post-9/11 GI Bill. You were one of the first veterans organizations that I
called upon when I began my presidential campaign. And as President, it's been my pleasure
to welcome you to the White House -- to make sure America is serving our veterans as well as
you've served us. And, most recently, to sign advanced appropriations into law so that
veterans health care will never again be held hostage to the budget battles and the political
games in Washington.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, there's another visit I won't forget. I was in the Oval Office expecting a visit from the
DAV. And in comes Bobby carrying a baseball bat. Now, it's not every day that somebody gets
past the Secret Service carrying a baseball bat. You may have heard about this. It turns out it
was a genuine Louisville Slugger -- a thank you for going to bat for our veterans on advanced
appropriations.
So I'm grateful for that symbol of our partnership, and I'm proud of the progress we've
achieved together. But as one of your outstanding DAV members from Illinois just reminded
me, this is a promise I made during the campaign -- it was a promise made and it was a
promise kept. And I intend to keep on keeping my promises to the veterans of America.
In the life of our nation, not every generation has been summoned to defend our country in its
hour of need. But every generation to answer that call has done so with honor and with
courage.
Among you are members of that generation that saved the world from fascism. I was honored
to stand with our World War II vets at Normandy last year for the anniversary of D-Day. And
this year, as we mark -- this year, as we mark the 65th anniversary of our victory in that war,
we once again salute our veterans of the Second World War.
Others among you faced a brutal foe on a cold Korean Peninsula. This year, as we mark the
60th anniversary of that conflict, I will be proud to travel to the Republic of Korea in
November to pay tribute to our veterans of the Korean War.
Many of you served in the jungles of Vietnam. You also served with honor, exemplary
dedication and courage, but were often shunned when you came home. That was a national
disgrace and it must never happen again. And that's why we're making sure our veterans
from today's wars are shown the respect and the dignity they deserve.
And whether you served in the Gulf to free a captive Kuwait or fought in the streets of
Mogadishu or stopped an ethnic slaughter in the Balkans, you too are part of an unbroken line
of service stretching across two centuries.
For you, coming home was the beginning of another battle -- the battle to recover. You fought
to stand again and to walk again and to work again. You fought for each other and for the
benefits and treatment you had earned. You became leaders in our communities, in our
companies, and our country -- including a former Vietnam vet and senator, Max Cleland, who
reminded us that America's disabled veterans are "strong at the broken places."
Today, your legacy of service is carried on by a new generation of Americans. Some stepped
forward in a time of peace, not foreseeing years of combat. Others stepped forward in this
time of war, knowing they could be sent into harm's way. For the past nine years, in
Afghanistan and Iraq, they have borne the burdens of war.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
They, and their families, have faced the greatest test in the history of our all-volunteer force,
serving tour after tour, year after year. Through their extraordinary service, they have written
their own chapter in the American story. And by any measure, they have earned their place
among the greatest of generations.
Now, one of those chapters is nearing an end. As a candidate for President, I pledged to bring
the war in Iraq to a responsible end. Shortly after taking office, I announced our new strategy
for Iraq and for a transition to full Iraqi responsibility. And I made it clear that by August 31st,
2010, America's combat mission in Iraq would end. And that is exactly what we are doing -as promised and on schedule.
Already, we have closed or turned over to Iraq hundreds of bases. We're moving out millions
of pieces of equipment in one of the largest logistics operations that we've seen in decades.
By the end of this month, we'll have brought more than 90,000 of our troops home from Iraq
since I took office -- more than 90,000 have come home.
Today -- even as terrorists try to derail Iraq's progress -- because of the sacrifices of our
troops and their Iraqi partners, violence in Iraq continues to be near the lowest it's been in
years. And next month, we will change our military mission from combat to supporting and
training Iraqi security forces. In fact, in many parts of the country, Iraqis have already taken
the lead for security.
As agreed to with the Iraqi government, we will maintain a transitional force until we remove
all our troops from Iraq by the end of next year. And during this period, our forces will have a
focused mission -- supporting and training Iraqi forces, partnering with Iraqis in
counterterrorism missions, and protecting our civilian and military efforts. These are
dangerous tasks. There are still those with bombs and bullets who will try to stop Iraq's
progress. And the hard truth is we have not seen the end of American sacrifice in Iraq.
But make no mistake: Our commitment in Iraq is changing -- from a military effort led by our
troops to a civilian effort led by our diplomats. And as we mark the end of America's combat
mission in Iraq, a grateful America must pay tribute to all who served there.
Remember, our nation has had vigorous debates about the Iraq War. There are patriots who
supported going to war, and patriots who opposed it. But there has never been any daylight
between us when it comes to supporting the more than one million Americans in uniform who
have served in Iraq -- far more than any conflict since Vietnam.
These men and women from across our country have done more than meet the challenges of
this young century. Through their extraordinary courage and confidence and commitment,
these troops and veterans have proven themselves as a new generation of American leaders.
And while our country has sometimes been divided, they have fought together as one.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
While other individuals and institutions have shirked responsibility, they have welcomed
responsibility. While it was easy to be daunted by overwhelming challenges, the generation
that has served in Iraq has overcome every test before them.
They took to the skies and sped across deserts in the initial charge into Baghdad. And today
we're joined by an infantryman who was there as part of the 101st Airborne Division -Sergeant Nicholas Bernardi is here.
When invasion gave way to insurgency, our troops persevered, block by block, city by city,
from Baghdad to Fallujah. As a driver in a transportation company, this soldier endured
constant attacks but never waivered in his mission -- and we thank Sergeant Dan Knabe.
Thank you, Dan.
When terrorists and militias plunged Iraq into sectarian war, our troops adapted and adjusted
-- restoring order and effectively defeating al Qaeda in Iraq on the battlefield. And among
those who served in those pivotal days was a scout with the 1st Cavalry Division -- Specialist
Matt Seidl. Matt.
For each of these men and women there are countless others. And we honor them all: Our
young enlisted troops and noncommissioned officers who are the backbone of our military; the
National Guardsmen and Reservists who served in unprecedented deployments; more women
tested by combat than in any war in American history. Including a Marine here today -Sergeant Patricia Ruiz. Patricia. I teased Patricia. I said she looks like she's still in high school.
But she's a Marine.
And we salute the families back home. They too have sacrificed in this war. That's why my
wife, Michelle, and the Vice President's wife, Dr. Jill Biden, have made it their mission to make
sure America takes care of our remarkable military families, including our veterans.
Now, this summer, tens of thousands of our troops in Iraq are coming home. Last week, Vice
President Biden was at Fort Drum to help welcome back members of the legendary 10th
Mountain Division. Families are being reunited at bases across the country, from Fort Bragg in
North Carolina to Fort Riley in Kansas to Fort Lewis in Washington. And in this season of
homecomings, every American can show their gratitude to our patriots who served in Iraq.
As we do, we are humbled by the profound sacrifice that has been rendered. Each of the
veterans I have mentioned carried with them the wounds of this war. And as a nation, we will
honor forever all who gave their lives -- that last true measure of devotion -- in service in Iraq
-- soldiers, sailors, Airmen, Marines, Coast Guardsmen -- active, Guard, Reserve.
Even as we end the war in Iraq, even as we welcome home so many of our troops, others are
still deployed in Afghanistan. So I want to remind everyone, it was Afghanistan where al
Qaeda plotted and trained to murder 3,000 innocent people on 9/11.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is Afghanistan and the tribal regions of Pakistan where terrorists have launched other
attacks against us and our allies. And if Afghanistan were to be engulfed by an even wider
insurgency, al Qaeda and its terrorist affiliates would have even more space to plan their next
attack. And as President of the United States, I refuse to let that happen.
The effort in Afghanistan has been long and been difficult. And that's why after years in which
the situation had deteriorated, I announced a new strategy last December -- a military effort
to break the Taliban's momentum and train Afghan forces so that they can take the lead for
their security; and a civilian effort to promote good governance and development that
improves the lives of the Afghan people; and deeper cooperation with Pakistan to root out
terrorists on both sides of the border.
We will continue to face huge challenges in Afghanistan. But it's important that the American
people know that we are making progress and we are focused on goals that are clear and
achievable.
On the military front, nearly all the additional forces that I ordered to Afghanistan are now in
place. Along with our Afghan and international partners, we are going on the offensive against
the Taliban -- targeting their leaders, challenging them in regions where they had free reign,
and training Afghan national security forces. Our thoughts and prayers are with all our troops
risking their lives for our safety in Afghanistan.
And on the civilian front, we're insisting on greater accountability. And the Afghan government
has taken concrete steps to foster development and combat corruption, and to put forward a
reintegration plan that allows Afghans to lay down their arms.
In Pakistan, we've seen the government begin to take the fight to violent extremists within its
borders, and major blows have been struck against al Qaeda and its leadership -- because in
this region and beyond, we will tolerate no safe haven for al Qaeda and their extremist allies.
We will disrupt, we will dismantle, and we will ultimately defeat al Qaeda. And we will give our
troops the resources and the equipment to get the job done and keep our country safe.
At the same time, every American who has ever worn the uniform must also know this: Your
country is going to take care of you when you come home. Our nation's commitment to our
veterans, to you and your families, is a sacred trust. And to me and my administration,
upholding that trust is a moral obligation. It's not just politics.
That's why I've charged Secretary Shinseki with building a 21st century VA. And that includes
one of the largest percentage increases to the VA budget in the past 30 years. We are going
to cut this deficit that we've got, and I've proposed a freeze on discretionary domestic
spending. But what I have not frozen is the spending we need to keep our military strong, our
country safe and our veterans secure. So we're going to keep on making historic
commitments to our veterans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
For about 200,000 Vietnam vets who may have been exposed to Agent Orange and who now
suffer from three chronic diseases, we're making it easier for you to get the health care and
benefits you need.
For our Gulf War veterans, we've declared that nine infectious diseases are now presumed to
be related to your service in Desert Storm.
For our disabled veterans, we've eliminated co-pays for those of you who are catastrophically
disabled. We've kept our promise on concurrent receipt by proposing legislation that would
allow severely disabled retirees to receive your military retired pay and your VA disability
benefits. It's the right thing to do.
We've dramatically increased funding for veterans health care across the board, and that
includes improving care for rural veterans and women veterans. For those half-million vets
who had lost their eligibility -- our Priority 8 veterans -- we're restoring your access to VA
health care.
And since the rumors continue to fly, even though they are wrong, let me say it as clearly as I
can: The historic health care reform legislation that I signed into law does not -- I repeat,
does not -- change your veterans benefits. The VA health care benefits that you know and
trust are safe, and that includes prosthetics for our disabled veterans.
Thanks to advanced appropriations, the delays for funding for veterans medical care are over.
And just as those delays were unacceptable, so too are long delays in the claims process. So
Secretary Shinseki is working overtime to create a single lifetime electronic record that our
troops and veterans can keep for life.
And today -- today I can announce that for the first time ever, veterans will be able to go to
the VA website, click a simple "blue button," and download or print your personal health
records so you have them when you need them and can share them with your doctors outside
of the VA. That's happening this fall.
We're hiring thousands of new claims processors to break the backlog once and for all. And to
make sure the backlog doesn't come back, we're reforming the claims process itself with new
information technologies and a paperless system.
We got an Amen over here.
As a result of the innovation competition that I announced last summer, our dedicated VA
employees suggested more than 10,000 new ways to cut through the red tape and the
bureaucracy. And we're already putting dozens of these innovative ideas into action.
Additionally, we're enabling more veterans to check the status of their claims online and from
their cell phone.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
As a next step, we're opening this competition to entrepreneurs and academics so the best
minds in America can help us develop the technologies to serve our vets, including those of
you with multiple traumatic injuries. And we're going to keep at this until we meet our
commitment to cut those backlogs, slash those wait times, and deliver your benefits sooner.
This is a priority and we are going to get it done.
We're making progress in ending homelessness among our veterans. Today, on any given
night, there are about 20,000 fewer veterans on the streets than there were when we took
office. But we're not going to be satisfied until every veteran who has fought for America has
a home in America. We will not stop.
Finally, we're keeping faith with our newest veterans returning from Afghanistan and Iraq.
We're offering more of the support and counseling they need to transition back to civilian life.
That includes funding the post-9/11 GI Bill, which is already helping more than 300,000
veterans and family members pursue their dream of a college education.
And for veterans trying to find work in a very tough economy, we're helping with job training
and placement. And I've directed the federal government to make it a priority to hire more
veterans, including disabled veterans. And every business in America needs to know our vets
have the training, they've got the skills, they have the dedication -- they are ready to work.
And our country is stronger when we tap the incredible talents of our veterans.
For those coming home injured, we're continuing to direct unprecedented support to our
wounded warriors in uniform -- more treatment centers, more case managers -- delivering the
absolute best care available. For those who can, we want to help them get back to where they
want to be -- with their units. And that includes service members with a disability, who still
have so much to offer our military.
We're directing unprecedented resources to treating the signature wounds of today's wars -traumatic brain injury and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder. And I recently signed into law the
Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act. That's a long name, but let me tell you
what it does. It not only improves treatment for traumatic brain injury and PTSD, it gives new
support to many of the caregivers who put their own lives on hold to care for their loved one.
And as so many of you know, PTSD is a pain like no other -- the nightmares that keep coming
back, the rage that strikes suddenly, the hopelessness that's led too many of our troops and
veterans to take their own lives. So today, I want to say in very personal terms to anyone
who is struggling -- don't suffer in silence. It's not a sign of weakness to reach out for support
-- it's a sign of strength. Your country needs you. We are here for you. We are here to help
you stand tall. Don't give up. Reach out.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
We're making major investments in awareness, outreach, and suicide prevention -- hiring
more mental health professionals, improving care and treatment. For those of you suffering
from PTSD, we're making it a whole lot easier to qualify for VA benefits. From now on, if a VA
doctor confirms a diagnosis of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, that is enough -- no matter
what war you served in.
These are the commitments my administration has made. These are the promises we've
worked to keep. This is the sacred trust we have pledged to uphold -- to you and all who
serve.
I want to make special mention of a truly inspiring American, Staff Sergeant Cory Remsburg.
He was at Bethesda during one of my periodic visits to see our wounded warriors. And as I
walked into his room, I saw a picture on the wall -- and it was a picture of the two of us
together. See, I had met Cory before, back at the D-Day anniversary in Normandy. A good
looking young man, a proud Army Ranger, he had joined in a reenactment of that historic
paratroop jump.
Then soon after, Cory served on his 10th deployment since 9/11 -- that's right, his 10th
deployment. And that's when an IED nearly took his life. The traumatic brain injury was
severe. Cory was in a coma for months. It seemed possible that he would never wake up.
But then something happened. His doctors still can't explain it. His parents called it a miracle.
Cory opened one of his eyes. Then a few weeks later, he moved a leg. Then he moved an
arm.
And there at Bethesda, we were meeting again. And Cory still couldn't speak. But he looked
me in the eye. He lifted his arm and he shook my hand firmly. And when I asked how he was
feeling, he held up his hand, pulled his fingers together and gave a thumbs up.
Today, Cory is at a VA hospital in Florida. And with the support of his family and VA staff, he's
working hard every day to regain his strength. He's got to learn to speak all over again. He's
grateful for the visits he's received from friends and supporters -- including the Disabled
American Veterans.
And Cory is only 27 years old. He knows he's got a long and very hard road ahead. But he
pushes on, and he's determined to get back to his fellow Rangers. And when someone at the
hospital said, "Cory, you're going to walk out of here someday," he said "No, I'm going to run
out of here."
So to Staff Sergeant Cory Remsburg, to the Disabled American Veterans -- I want to say to all
of you, you are the very essence of America, the values that sustain us as a people, and the
virtues our nation needs most right now. And the resilience that, in the face of great loss, so
many of you experienced, I know you, like Cory, know what it means to pick yourselves up
and keep pushing on.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that sense of purpose that tells us to carry on, not just when it's easy, but when it's hard,
even when the odds seem overwhelming -- that's what we're about. The confidence that our
destiny is never written for us, it's written by us. The faith, that fundamental American faith,
that there are always brighter days ahead; and that we not will not simply endure, but we will
emerge from our tests and trials and tribulations stronger than before -- that is your story.
That is America's story. And I'm proud to stand with you as we write the next proud chapter in
the life of the country we love.
God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329846" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Dodd-Frank_Signing.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Dodd-Frank%20Signing.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Signing of Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
delivered 21 July 2010, Ronald Reagan Building, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Everybody, please have a seat, have a seat.
Well, good morning, everyone.
We are gathered in the heart of our nation’s capital, surrounded by memorials to leaders and
citizens who served our nation in its earliest days and in its days of greatest trial. Today is
such a time for America.
Over the past two years, we have faced the worst recession since the Great Depression. Eight
million people lost their jobs. Tens of millions saw the value of their homes and retirement
savings plummet. Countless businesses have been unable to get the loans they need and
many have been forced to shut their doors. And although the economy is growing again, too
many people are still feeling the pain of the downturn.
Now, while a number of factors led to such a severe recession, the primary cause was a
breakdown in our financial system. It was a crisis born of a failure of responsibility from
certain corners of Wall Street to the halls of power in Washington. For years, our financial
sector was governed by antiquated and poorly enforced rules that allowed some to game the
system and take risks that endangered the entire economy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Unscrupulous lenders locked consumers into complex loans with hidden costs. Firms like AIG
placed massive, risky bets with borrowed money. And while the rules left abuse and excess
unchecked, they also left taxpayers on the hook if a big bank or financial institution ever
failed.
Now, even before the crisis hit, I went to Wall Street and I called for common-sense reforms
to protect consumers and our economy as a whole. And soon after taking office, I proposed a
set of reforms to empower consumers and investors, to bring the shadowy deals that caused
this crisis into the light of day, and to put a stop to taxpayer bailouts once and for all. Today,
thanks to a lot of people in this room, those reforms will become the law of the land.
For the last year, Chairmen Barney Frank and Chris Dodd have worked day and night. Barney
and Chris have worked day and night to bring about this reform. And I am profoundly
grateful to them. I would be remiss if I didn't also express my appreciation to Senator Harry
Reid and Speaker Nancy Pelosi for their leadership. It wouldn’t have happened without them.
Passing this bill was no easy task. To get there, we had to overcome the furious lobbying of
an array of powerful interest groups and a partisan minority determined to block change. So
the members who are here today, both on the stage and in the audience, they have done a
great service in devoting so much time and expertise to this effort, to looking out for the
public interests and not the special interests. And I also want to thank the three Republican
senators who put partisanship aside, judged this bill on the merits, and voted for reform.
We’re grateful to them. And the Republican House members. Good to see you, Joe.
Now, let’s put this in perspective. The fact is, the financial industry is central to our nation’s
ability to grow, to prosper, to compete and to innovate. There are a lot of banks that
understand and fulfill this vital role, and there are a whole lot of bankers who want to do right
-- and do right -- by their customers. This reform will help foster innovation, not hamper it.
It is designed to make sure that everybody follows the same set of rules, so that firms
compete on price and quality, not on tricks and not on traps.
It demands accountability and responsibility from everyone. It provides certainty to
everybody, from bankers to farmers to business owners to consumers. And unless your
business model depends on cutting corners or bilking your customers, you’ve got nothing to
fear from reform.
Now, for all those Americans who are wondering what Wall Street reform means for you,
here’s what you can expect. If you’ve ever applied for a credit card, a student loan, or a
mortgage, you know the feeling of signing your name to pages of barely understandable fine
print. What often happens as a result is that many Americans are caught by hidden fees and
penalties, or saddled with loans they can’t afford.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s what happened to Robin Fox, hit with a massive rate increase on her credit card
balance even though she paid her bills on time. That’s what happened to Andrew Giordano,
who discovered hundreds of dollars in overdraft fees on his bank statement -- fees he had no
idea he might face. Both are here today. Well, with this law, unfair rate hikes, like the one
that hit Robin, will end for good. And we’ll ensure that people like Andrew aren’t unwittingly
caught by overdraft fees when they sign up for a checking account.
With this law, we’ll crack down on abusive practices in the mortgage industry. We’ll make
sure that contracts are simpler -- putting an end to many hidden penalties and fees in
complex mortgages -- so folks know what they’re signing.
With this law, students who take out college loans will be provided clear and concise
information about their obligations.
And with this law, ordinary investors -- like seniors and folks saving for retirement -- will be
able to receive more information about the costs and risks of mutual funds and other
investment products, so that they can make better financial decisions as to what will work for
them.
So, all told, these reforms represent the strongest consumer financial protections in history.
In history. And these protections will be enforced by a new consumer watchdog with just one
job: looking out for people -- not big banks, not lenders, not investment houses -- looking
out for people as they interact with the financial system.
And that’s not just good for consumers; that’s good for the economy. Because reform will put
a stop to a lot of the bad loans that fueled a debt-based bubble. And it will mean all
companies will have to seek customers by offering better products, instead of more deceptive
ones.
Now, beyond the consumer protections I’ve outlined, reform will also rein in the abuse and
excess that nearly brought down our financial system. It will finally bring transparency to the
kinds of complex and risky transactions that helped trigger the financial crisis. Shareholders
will also have a greater say on the pay of CEOs and other executives, so they can reward
success instead of failure.
And finally, because of this law, the American people will never again be asked to foot the bill
for Wall Street’s mistakes. There will be no more tax-funded bailouts -- period. If a large
financial institution should ever fail, this reform gives us the ability to wind it down without
endangering the broader economy. And there will be new rules to make clear that no firm is
somehow protected because it is “too big to fail,” so we don’t have another AIG.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's what this reform will mean. Now, it doesn’t mean our work is over. For these new
rules to be effective, regulators will have to be vigilant. We may need to make adjustments
along the way as our financial system adapts to these new changes and changes around the
globe. No law can force anybody to be responsible; it’s still incumbent on those on Wall
Street to heed the lessons of this crisis in terms of how they conduct their businesses.
The fact is every American -- from Main Street to Wall Street -- has a stake in our financial
system. Wall Street banks and firms invest the capital that makes it possible for start-ups to
sell new products. They provide loans to businesses to expand and to hire. They back
mortgages for families purchasing a new home. That’s why we’ll all stand to gain from these
reforms. We all win when investors around the world have confidence in our markets. We all
win when shareholders have more power and more information. We all win when consumers
are protected against abuse. And we all win when folks are rewarded based on how well they
perform, not how well they evade accountability.
In the end, our financial system only works -- our market is only free -- when there are clear
rules and basic safeguards that prevent abuse, that check excess, that ensure that it is more
profitable to play by the rules than to game the system. And that’s what these reforms are
designed to achieve -- no more, no less. Because that’s how we will ensure that our economy
works for consumers, that it works for investors, that it works for financial institutions -- that
it works for all of us.
This is the central lesson not only of this crisis but of our history. Ultimately, there’s no
dividing line between Main Street and Wall Street. We rise or fall together as one nation. So
these reforms will help lift our economy and lead all of us to a stronger, more prosperous
future.
And that’s why I’m so honored to sign these reforms into law, and I’m so grateful to
everybody who worked so hard to make this day possible.
Thank you very much, everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329804" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Dorothy_Height_Eulogy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Dorothy%20Height%20Eulogy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Eulogy for Dr. Dorothy Height
delivered 29 April 2010, Washington National Cathedral, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Please be seated. Let me begin by saying a word to Dr. Dorothy Height’s sister, Ms. Aldridge.
To some, she was a mentor. To all, she was a friend. But to you, she was family, and my
family offers yours our sympathy for your loss.
We are gathered here today to celebrate the life, and mourn the passing, of Dr. Dorothy
Height. It is fitting that we do so here, in our National Cathedral of Saint Peter and Saint
Paul. Here, in a place of great honor. Here, in the House of God. Surrounded by the love of
family and of friends. The love in this sanctuary is a testament to a life lived righteously; a
life that lifted other lives; a life that changed this country for the better over the course of
nearly one century here on Earth.
Michelle and I didn’t know Dr. Height as well, or as long, as many of you. We were reminded
during a previous moment in the service, when you have a nephew who’s 88 -- you’ve lived a
full life.
But we did come to know her in the early days of my campaign. And we came to love her, as
so many loved her. We came to love her stories. And we loved her smile. And we loved
those hats -- that she wore like a crown -- regal. In the White House, she was a regular.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
She came by not once, not twice -- 21 times she stopped by the White House. Took part in
our discussions around health care reform in her final months.
Last February, I was scheduled to see her and other civil rights leaders to discuss the pressing
problems of unemployment -- Reverend Sharpton, Ben Jealous of the NAACP, Marc Morial of
the National Urban League. Then we discovered that Washington was about to be blanketed
by the worst blizzard in record -- two feet of snow.
So I suggested to one of my aides, we should call Dr. Height and say we're happy to
reschedule the meeting. Certainly if the others come, she should not feel obliged. True to
form, Dr. Height insisted on coming, despite the blizzard, never mind that she was in a
wheelchair. She was not about to let just a bunch of men -- in this meeting. It was only when
the car literally could not get to her driveway that she reluctantly decided to stay home. But
she still sent a message -- about what needed to be done.
And I tell that story partly because it brings a smile to my face, but also because it captures
the quiet, dogged, dignified persistence that all of us who loved Dr. Height came to know so
well -- an attribute that we understand she learned early on.
Born in the capital of the old Confederacy, brought north by her parents as part of that great
migration, Dr. Height was raised in another age, in a different America, beyond the experience
of many. It’s hard to imagine, I think, life in the first decades of that last century when the
elderly woman that we knew was only a girl. Jim Crow ruled the South. The Klan was on the
rise -- a powerful political force. Lynching was all too often the penalty for the offense of
black skin. Slaves had been freed within living memory, but too often, their children, their
grandchildren remained captive, because they were denied justice and denied equality, denied
opportunity, denied a chance to pursue their dreams.
The progress that followed -- progress that so many of you helped to achieve, progress that
ultimately made it possible for Michelle and me to be here as President and First Lady -- that
progress came slowly.
Progress came from the collective effort of multiple generations of Americans. From
preachers and lawyers, and thinkers and doers, men and women like Dr. Height, who took it
upon themselves -- often at great risk -- to change this country for the better. From men like
W.E.B Du Bois and A. Philip Randolph; women like Mary McLeod Bethune and Betty Friedan -they’re Americans whose names we know. They are leaders whose legacies we teach. They
are giants who fill our history books. Well, Dr. Dorothy Height deserves a place in this
pantheon. She, too, deserves a place in our history books. She, too, deserves a place of
honor in America’s memory.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Look at her body of work. Desegregating the YWCA. Laying the groundwork for integration
on Wednesdays in Mississippi. Lending pigs to poor farmers as a sustainable source of
income. Strategizing with civil rights leaders, holding her own, the only woman in the room,
Queen Esther to this Moses Generation -- even as she led the National Council of Negro
Women with vision and energy -- with vision and energy, vision and class.
But we remember her not solely for all she did during the civil rights movement. We
remember her for all she did over a lifetime, behind the scenes, to broaden the movement’s
reach. To shine a light on stable families and tight-knit communities. To make us see the
drive for civil rights and women’s rights not as a separate struggle, but as part of a larger
movement to secure the rights of all humanity, regardless of gender, regardless of race,
regardless of ethnicity.
It’s an unambiguous record of righteous work, worthy of remembrance, worthy of
recognition. And yet, one of the ironies is, is that year after year, decade in, decade out, Dr.
Height went about her work quietly, without fanfare, without self-promotion. She never cared
about who got the credit. She didn’t need to see her picture in the papers. She understood
that the movement gathered strength from the bottom up, those unheralded men and women
who don't always make it into the history books but who steadily insisted on their dignity, on
their manhood and womanhood. She wasn’t interested in credit. What she cared about was
the cause. The cause of justice. The cause of equality. The cause of opportunity. Freedom’s
cause.
And that willingness to subsume herself, that humility and that grace, is why we honor Dr.
Dorothy Height. As it is written in the Gospel of Matthew: “For whoever exalts himself will be
humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.” I don’t think the author of the
Gospel would mind me rephrasing: “whoever humbles herself will be exalted.”
One of my favorite moments with Dr. Height -- this was just a few months ago -- we had
decided to put up the Emancipation Proclamation in the Oval Office, and we invited some
elders to share reflections of the movement. And she came and it was a inter-generational
event, so we had young children there, as well as elders, and the elders were asked to share
stories. And she talked about attending a dinner in the 1940s at the home of Dr. Benjamin
Mays, then president of Morehouse College. And seated at the table that evening was a 15year-old student, “a gifted child,” as she described him, filled with a sense of purpose, who
was trying to decide whether to enter medicine, or law, or the ministry.
And many years later, after that gifted child had become a gifted preacher -- I’m sure he had
been told to be on his best behavior -- after he led a bus boycott in Montgomery, and inspired
a nation with his dreams, he delivered a sermon on what he called “the drum major instinct” - a sermon that said we all have the desire to be first, we all want to be at the front of the
line.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The great test of a life, Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. said, is to harness that instinct; to redirect it
towards advancing the greater good; toward changing a community and a country for the
better; toward doing the Lord’s work.
I sometimes think Dr. King must have had Dorothy Height in mind when he gave that speech.
For Dorothy Height met the test.
Dorothy Height embodied that instinct. Dorothy Height was a drum major for justice. A drum
major for equality. A drum major for freedom. A drum major for service. And the lesson she
would want us to leave with today -- a lesson she lived out each and every day -- is that we
can all be first in service. We can all be drum majors for a righteous cause.
So let us live out that lesson. Let us honor her life by changing this country for the better as
long as we are blessed to live.
May God bless Dr. Dorothy Height and the union that she made more perfect.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329559" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Ebenezer_Baptist.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Ebenezer%20Baptist.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Ebenezer Baptist Church Address
delivered 20 January 2008, Ebenezer Baptist Church, Atlanta

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

[Introductory remarks]

Scripture tells us that when Joshua and the Israelites arrived at the gates of Jericho, they
could not enter. The walls of the city were too steep for any one person to climb. They were
too strong to be taken down by brute force. And so, the people sat for days, unable to pass on
through; but God had a plan for His People. He told them to stand together and march
together around the city, and on the seventh day he told them that when they heard the
sound of the ram’s horn, they should speak with one voice. And, at the chosen hour when the
horn sounded and a chorus of voices cried out together, the mighty walls of Jericho came
tumbling down. That’s what scripture tells us.
And there are many lessons to take from this passage, just as there are many lessons to take
from this day, just as there are many memories that fill the space of this church. As I was
thinking about which ones we needed to remember at this hour, my mind went back to the
very beginning of the modern Civil Rights era.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Because before Memphis and the mountaintop, before the bridge in Selma and the march on
Washington, before Birmingham and the beatings, the fire hoses, and the loss of those four
little girls, before there was King the icon and his magnificent dream, there was King the
young preacher and a people who found themselves suffering under the yolk of oppression.
And on the eve of the bus boycotts in Montgomery, at a time when many were still doubtful
about the possibilities of change, a time when there were those in the black community who
not only mistrusted each other, but mistrusted themselves -- King inspired with words not of
anger, but of an urgency, a fierce urgency that still speaks to us today. “Unity,” he said, “is
the great need of the hour.” “Unity is the great need of the hour.” Unity is how we shall
overcome.
What Dr. King understood is that if just one person chose to walk instead of ri[de] the bus,
those walls of oppression would not be moved. But maybe if a few more decided to walk,
those foundations might start to shake. If just a few women were willing to do what Rosa
Parks had been willing to do, maybe the cracks in those walls would start to show. If
teenagers took rides from North to South, maybe a few bricks would come loose. Maybe if
white folks marched because they’d come to understand that their freedom was wrapped up in
the freedom of others, that they too had a stake in the impending battle, the walls would
begin to sway, and if enough Americans were awakened to injustice, if they joined together
North and South, rich and poor, Jew and Gentile, then perhaps that wall would come tumbling
down, and justice would flow like waters of righteousness, like a mighty stream. “Unity is the
great need of the hour.” That’s what Dr. King said. It is the great need of this hour as well,
not because it sounds pleasant, not because it makes us feel good, but because it's the only
way we can overcome the essential deficit that exits in this country.
I’m not talking about the budget deficit. I’m not talking about the trade deficit. Talking about
the moral deficit in this country. I’m talking about an empathy deficit, the inability to
recognize ourselves in one another, to understand that we are our brother’s keeper and our
sister’s keeper, that in the words of Dr. King, “We are all tied together in a single garment of
destiny.” We have an empathy deficit when we’re still sending our children down corridors of
shame, schools in the forgotten corners of America where the color of your skin still affects
the content of your education.
We have a deficit when CEOs are making more in ten minutes than ordinary workers are
making in an entire year, when families lose their homes so unscrupulous lenders can make a
profit, when mothers can’t afford a doctor when their children are stricken with illness.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We have a deficit in this country when we have Scooter Libby justice for some and Jena
justice for others, when our children see hanging nooses from a school yard tree today, in the
present, in the 21st century.
We have a deficit when homeless veterans sleep on the streets of our cities, when innocents
are slaughtered in the deserts of Darfur, when young Americans serve tour after tour after
tour after tour of duty in a war that should have never been authorized and should have never
been waged.
We have an empathy deficit in this country that has to be closed. We have a deficit when it
takes a breach in the levees to reveal the breach in our compassion, when it takes a terrible
storm to reveal the hungry that God calls on us to feed, the sick that He calls on us to care
for, the least of these that He commands that we treat as our own. So, we have a deficit to
close. We have walls, barriers to justice and equality that must come down, and to do this, we
know that “unity is the great need of the hour.”
However, all too often, when we talk about unity in this country, we’ve come to believe that it
can be purchased on the cheap. We’ve come to believe that racial reconciliation can come
easily; that it’s just a matter of a few ignorant people trapped in the prejudices of the past,
and that if the demagogues and those who would exploit our racial divisions will simply go
away then all our problems will be solved. All too often, we seek to ignore the profound
structural and institutional barriers that stand in the way of insuring opportunity for all of our
children, or decent jobs for all of our people, or health care for those who are sick. We offer
unity, but we are not willing to pay the price that's required
Of course, true unity cannot be so easily purchased. It starts with a change in attitudes. It
starts with changing our hearts, and changing our minds, broadening our spirit. It’s not easy
to stand in somebody else’s shoes. It’s not easy to see past our own differences. We’ve all
encountered this in our own lives. What makes it even more difficult is that we have a politics
in this country that seeks to drive us apart, that puts up walls between us. We are told that
those who differ from us on a few things, differ from us on all things, that our problems are
the fault of those who don’t think like us or look like us or come from where we do. The
Welfare Queen, she’s taking our money. The Immigrant, he’s taking our jobs. The believer
condemns the nonbeliever as immoral, and the nonbeliever chides the believer for being
intolerant.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And for most of this country’s history, we in the African-American community have been at
the receiving end of man’s inhumanity to man. And all of us understand insidious -- All of us
understand intimately the insidious role that race still sometimes plays on the job and in the
schools, in our health care system, and in our criminal justice system.
And yet, if we are honest with ourselves, we must admit that none of our hands are entirely
clean. If we’re honest with ourselves, we'll acknowledge that our own community has not
always been true to King’s vision of a beloved community. If we’re honest with ourselves, we
have to admit that there have been times when we've scorned our gay brothers and sisters
instead of embracing them. The scourge of anti-Semitism has at times revealed itself in our
community. For too long, some of us have seen immigrants only as competitors for jobs
instead of companions in the fight for opportunity. Everyday our politics fuels and exploits this
kind of division across all races and regions, across gender and party. It is played out on
television; it is sensationalized by the media. Last week, it crept into the campaign for
President with charges and countercharges that serve to obscure the issues instead of
illuminating the critical choices we face as a nation. None of our hands are clean.
So let us say that on this day of all days, each of us carries with us the task of changing our
hearts and minds. The divisions, the stereotypes, the scapegoating, the ease with which we
blame the plight of ourselves on others -- all of that distracts us from the common challenges
that we face, war and poverty, inequality and injustice. We can no longer afford to build
ourselves up by tearing each other down. We can no longer afford to traffic in lies or fear or
hate. It's the poison that we must purge from our politics, the wall that we must tear down
before the hour grows too late. Because if Dr. King could love his jailer, if he could call on the
faithful, who once sat where you do, to forgive those who had set dogs and fire hoses upon
them, then surely we can look past what divides us in our time and bind up our wounds and
erase the sympathy deficit that exists in our hearts.
But if changing our hearts and our minds is the first critical step, we cannot stop there. It’s
not enough to bemoan the plight of the poor in this country and remain unwilling to push our
elected officials to provide the resources to fix our schools. It's not enough to decry the
disparities of health care and yet allow the insurance companies and the drug companies to
block real reform in our health care system. It’s not enough -- It’s not enough for us to abhor
the costs of a misguided war, and yet we continue to allow ourselves to be driven by a politics
of fear that sees the threat of an attack as a way to scare up votes instead of a call to come
together in a common effort.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Scripture tells us that we are judged not just by word but by deed. And if we are truly to bring
about the unity that is needed, that is so crucial in this time, we have to find it within
ourselves to act on what we know, to understand that living up to this country’s ideals and its
possibilities is going to require great effort and great resources, sacrifice and stamina. We
can’t pass a law called No Child Left Behind and then leave the money behind. That is not a
serious effort in bringing about the unity that is needed. We can’t celebrate Dr. King’s dream,
and yet still have insufficient funds to cash that promissory note that was promised at the
beginning of this nation.
That is what is at stake in this great debate we are having today. Changes that are needed
are not just a matter of tinkering around the edges. They will not come if politicians simply tell
us what we want to hear. All of us will be called upon to make some sacrifice. None of us will
be exempt from responsibility. We've had to fight to fix our schools, but we also have to
challenge ourselves to be better parents, and turn off the television set, and put away the
video game, and our men have to be home with our children. That, too, is part of the
challenge that we must make.
We will have to confront the biases in our criminal justice system, but we also have to
acknowledge the deep-seeded violence that still resides in our own communities, in too many
of the hearts of our young people, and we have to break the grip of that violence wherever we
see it. That’s how we’re going to bring about the change that we seek. That’s how Dr. King led
this country through the wilderness.
He did it with words, words that he spoke not just to the children of slaves but the children of
slave owners, words that inspired not just black but also white, not just Christian but also Jew
and Muslim and Buddhists and Atheists, not just the southerner but also the northerner. He
led with words, but he also led with deeds. He also led by example. He led by marching and
going to jail and suffering threats and beatings and being away from his family. He led by
taking a stand against a war knowing full well that it would diminish his popularity. He led by
challenging our economic structures, understanding that it would cause discomfort. Dr. King
understood that unity cannot be won on the cheap, that we would have to earn it through
great effort and determination. That’s the unity, the hard earned unity that we need right
now. That is the effort, the determination that can transform blind optimism into hope.
You know people have remarked on the fact that I talk about hope a lot in my campaign. You
know they -- they tease me a little bit. Some have been scornful. They say, “Ah, he’s talking
about hope again. He’s so idealistic. He’s so naïve. He’s a hope monger.” That’s okay. It’s
true. I talk about hope. I talk about it a lot because the odds of me standing here today are so

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
small, so remote that I couldn’t of gotten here without some hope. You know my -- my daddy
left me when I was two years old. I needed some hope to get here. I was raised by a single
mother. I needed some hope to get here. I got in trouble when I was a teenager, did some
things folks now like to talk about. I needed some hope to get here. I wasn’t born into money,
or great wealth, or great privilege, or status. I was given love, an education, and some hope.
That’s what I got. That’s my birthright.
So I talk about hope. I -- I put “Hope” on my campaign signs. It doesn’t even have my name
on them sometimes -- just says “Hope.” Folks don’t know who they’re voting for, but it makes
them feel good. Say, you know, huh? I spoke about hope at the Democratic Convention. I -- I
wrote a book called The Audacity of Hope. And so I -- so I’m puzzled when -- when some
people, some of the other candidates make a mockery of the idea. They say I’m pedaling false
hopes. "Get a reality check," they tell me. And I have to -- I have to try to understand what
they're saying. The implication is is that if you are hopeful, that you somehow must be
engaging in wishful thinking. Your -- Your head must be in the clouds; that you must be
passive and just sit back and wait for things to happen to you. That seems to be the
implication.
And so I have to explain to people that’s not what hope is. Hope is not blind optimism. Hope is
not ignorance of the barriers and hurdles and hazards that stand in your way. Hope’s just the
opposite. I know how hard it will be to provide health care to every single American. The
insurance companies, drug companies, they don’t want to give up their profits. I know it won’t
be easy to have a energy policy that makes sense for America because the oil companies like
writing the energy bills. I know that alleviating poverty, or making sure all our children can
learn, or eliminating the scourge of racism in our society -- none of those things lend
themselves to simple solutions.
I know because I fought on the streets as a community organizer in poor neighborhoods on
the Southside of Chicago alongside those without jobs or without prospects for the future. I
have fought in the courts as a civil rights attorney for those who had been denied opportunity
on the job or denied access to the ballot box. I’ve seen good legislation die because -- Well,
I’ve seen that too -- I’ve seen good legislation die because good intentions weren’t enough,
because they weren’t fortified with a political majority and political will. I’ve seen this country
-- this country’s judgment clouded by fear. I know how easily a country can be misled when it
is afraid. I know how hard it is. Everybody here understands how difficult it is to bring about
true change, change that we can believe in. But I also know this -- that nothing in this country
worthwhile has ever happened except somebody somewhere decided to hope.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s how this country was founded because a group of patriots decided they were going to
take on the British Empire. Nobody was putting their money on them. That’s how slaves and
abolitionists resisted that evil system. That’s how a new President was able to chart a course
to insure that this nation would no longer remain half slave and half free. That’s how the
greatest generation defeated Fascism and overcame a Great Depression. That’s how women
won the right to vote. That’s how workers won the right to organize. That’s how young people
and old people and middle-aged folks were willing to walk instead of ride the bus, and folks
came down on Freedom Rides. They marched, and they sat in, and they were beaten and fire
houses were sent on them, and dogs were sent on them, and some went to jail, and some
died for freedom's cause. That’s what hope is. Imagining and then fighting for and struggling
for and sometimes dying for what didn’t seem possible before. There’s nothing naïve about
that. There are no false hopes in that.
I don’t believe in false hopes. Imagine if John F. Kennedy had looked up at the moon and
said, "Well, that’s too far." False hopes, we can’t go there. If Dr. King had stood on the Lincoln
Memorial and said, "Y’all go home; we can’t overcome." There’s no such thing as false hopes,
but what I know deep in my heart is that we cannot bring about change unless we are unified,
unless we do it together. Change does not happen from the top down -- in America or
anywhere else. It happens from the bottom up. It happens because ordinary people dream
extraordinary things. It’s because all of you decide that change must come. That I know.
It wasn’t just one voice -- It wasn't just one voice that shouted out before the walls of Jericho.
All the voices came together, a chorus of voices. That’s what gives me hope: not just those
who ascend to high office, but the changes that are happening in ordinary places. The stories
that give me my hope don’t happen in the spotlight. When I think about Dr. King, I suspect he
was sustained not by having dinner with Presidents; not by getting the Nobel Peace Prize; but
coming back to church and seeing the mothers of the church and the deacons. Those who
maintained their dignity were standing up straight in the face of injustice. That’s where he
drew his hope. He saw God in their faces. Those stories don’t happen on a presidential stage;
they happen in the quiet quarters of our lives. They happen in the moments we least expect.
So, let me close by giving an example of one of those stories.
There is a young woman, 23 years old, white woman, named Ashley Baia, who organizes for
our campaign in Florence, South Carolina. Ashley has been working to organize mostly black
folks. She’s in Florence, South Carolina. She’s been doing it since the beginning of the
campaign, and the other day she...set up a round table discussion where everyone around
was telling their story about who they were and why they were there. And so, Ashley
explained, she started things off, by explaining why she was there. And she explained that

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
when she was nine years old her mother got cancer, and because she had to miss a day of
work she was let go; and she lost her health care; and then she had to file for bankruptcy.
They were on hard times, and that’s when Ashley, nine-years-old at the time, decided she had
to do something to help her mom, and she knew that food was one of their most expensive
costs. They didn’t have a lot of money. Ashley lived in a poor household.
And so Ashley convinced her mother that she really liked and really wanted to eat more than
anything else mustard and relish sandwiches. She had heard that condiments like mustard
and relish were cheap. And she -- she concocted in her own mind at the age of nine that she
would convince her mother that that’s the only thing she wanted to eat everyday, because she
figured that would be a way of saving money for the family and helping them alleviate their
hardships. So she did this for a year until her mom got better. And in that round table she told
everyone that the reason she joined our campaign was so that she could help millions of other
children in the country who want and need to help their parents too. She had heard me speak
about my mother having cancer and having to worry about maybe not getting the health care
she needed because of a preexisting condition, and she had connected with that. She thought,
maybe Barack would fight for my mother. And if he would fight for my mother, then maybe I
will fight alongside him. That’s what had brought her to Florence.
So Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks everyone else why
they’re supporting the campaign. They all have different stories and different reasons: some
bring up specific issues; some talk about, upset about, affirmative action; some talk about,
you know, "I want to see more jobs in the community"; some are frustrated about trade;
some just like me.
So they all got a bunch of different reasons, and finally, at the end of this discussion, they
come to this elderly black man. He’s been sitting there quiet the whole time, hasn’t been
saying a word. And Ashley asks him why is he there. And he doesn’t bring up a specific issue.
He does not say healthcare or the economy. He doesn’t talk about the Iraq War. He doesn’t
say anything about education. He doesn’t say that he’s there because he likes Barack Obama,
or he’s proud of the possibility of the first African American President. He simply says to
everyone in the room, “I am here because of Ashley. I am here because of this young girl,
and the fact that she's willing to fight for what she believes in. And that reminds me that I still
have some fight left in me, and I’m going stand up for what I believe in.”
Now, by itself, that single moment of recognition between that young white girl and that old
black man, that’s not enough to change a country. By itself, it’s not enough to give health
care to the sick or jobs to the jobless or education to our children, but it is where we begin.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
It’s why I believe that the walls in that room began to shake at that moment. And if they can
shake in that room, then they can shake here in Atlanta, and if they can shake in Atlanta,
then they can shake in the state of Georgia, and if they can shake in Georgia, they can shake
all across America. And if enough of our voices join together, if we see each other in each
other’s eyes, we can bring those walls tumbling down. The walls of Jericho can finally come
tumbling down.
That is our hope, but only if we pray together, if we work together, and if we march together.
Ebenezer, we cannot walk alone. Brothers and sisters, we cannot walk alone. In the struggle
for justice and for equality, we cannot walk alone. In the struggle for opportunity and justice,
we cannot walk alone. In the struggle to heal this nation and repair the world, we cannot walk
alone. So I ask you to walk with me and march with me and join your voices with mine, and
together we will sing the song that tears down the walls that divide us and lift up an America
that is truly indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
May God bless the memory of the great pastor of this church.
And may God bless the United States of America.
Thank you. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/6/22

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329620" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Economic_Crisis_and_Executive_Compensation_Salary_Cap.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Economic%20Crisis%20and%20Executive%20Compensation%20Salary%20Cap.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Remarks on the Economic Crisis & Executive Compensation

Delivered 4 February 2009, Grand Foyer, The White House

Thank you, Tim, for your hard work on this issue and on our economic recovery.
The economic crisis we face is unlike any we've seen in our lifetime. It's a crisis of falling
confidence and rising debt, of widely distributed risk and narrowly concentrated reward; a
crisis written in the fine print of sub-prime mortgages, on the ledger lines of once mighty
financial institutions, and on the pink slips that have upended the lives of so many people
across this country and cost the economy 2.6 million jobs last year alone.
We know that even if we do everything that we should, this crisis was years in the making,
and it will take more than weeks or months to turn things around.
But make no mistake: A failure to act, and act now, will turn crisis into a catastrophe and
guarantee a longer recession, a less robust recovery, and a more uncertain future. Millions
more jobs will be lost. More businesses will be shuttered. More dreams will be deferred.
And that's why I feel such a sense of urgency about the economic recovery and reinvestment
plan that is before Congress today. With it, we can save or create more than three million
jobs, doing things that will strengthen our country for years to come. It's not merely a
prescription for short-term spending -- it's a strategy for long-term economic growth in areas
like renewable energy and health care and education.
Now, in the past few days I've heard criticisms that this plan is somehow wanting, and these
criticisms echo the very same failed economic theories that led us into this crisis in the first
place -- the notion that tax cuts alone will solve all our problems; that we can ignore
fundamental challenges like energy independence and the high cost of health care; that we

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
can somehow deal with this in a piecemeal fashion and still expect our economy and our
country to thrive.
I reject those theories. And so did the American people when they went to the polls in
November and voted resoundingly for change. So I urge members of Congress to act without
delay. No plan is perfect, and we should work to make it stronger. No one is more committed
to making it stronger than me. But let's not make the perfect the enemy of the essential. Let's
show people all over the country who are looking for leadership in this difficult time that we
are equal to the task.
At the same time, we know that this recovery and reinvestment plan is only the first part of
what we need to do to restore prosperity and secure our future. We also need a strong and
viable financial system to keep credit flowing to businesses and families alike. And my
administration will do whatever it takes to restore our financial system. Our recovery depends
on it. And so in the next week, Secretary Geithner will release a new strategy to get credit
moving again -- a strategy that will reflect some of the lessons of past mistakes while laying
the foundation of the future.
But in order to restore trust in our financial system, we're going to have to do more than just
put forward our plans. In order to restore trust, we've got to make certain that taxpayer funds
are not subsidizing excessive compensation packages on Wall Street.
We all need to take responsibility. And this includes executives at major financial firms who
turned to the American people, hat in hand, when they were in trouble, even as they paid
themselves customary lavish bonuses. As I said last week, this is the height of irresponsibility.
It's shameful. And that's exactly the kind of disregard of the costs and consequences of their
actions that brought about this crisis: a culture of narrow self-interest and short-term gain at
the expense of everything else.
This is America. We don't disparage wealth. We don't begrudge anybody for achieving
success. And we certainly believe that success should be rewarded. But what gets people
upset -- and rightfully so -- are executives being rewarded for failure, especially when those
rewards are subsidized by U.S. taxpayers, many of whom are having a tough time
themselves.
For top executives to award themselves these kinds of compensation packages in the midst of
this economic crisis isn't just bad taste -- it's bad strategy -- and I will not tolerate it as
President. We're going to be demanding some restraint in exchange for federal aid -- so that
when firms seek new federal dollars, we won't find them up to the same old tricks.
As part of the reforms we're announcing today, top executives at firms receiving extraordinary
help from U.S. taxpayers will have their compensation capped at 500,000 dollars -- a fraction
of the salaries that have been reported recently. And if these executives receive any additional
compensation, it will come in the form of stock that can't be paid up until taxpayers are paid
back for their assistance.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Companies receiving federal aid are going to have to disclose publicly all the perks and
luxuries bestowed upon senior executives, and provide an explanation to the taxpayers and to
shareholders as to why these expenses are justified. And we're putting a stop to these kinds
of massive severance packages we've all read about with disgust; we're taking the air out of
golden parachutes.
We're asking these firms to take responsibility, to recognize the nature of this crisis and their
role in it. We believe that what we've laid out should be viewed as fair and embraced as basic
common sense.
And finally, these guidelines we're putting in place are only the beginning of a long-term
effort. We're going to examine the ways in which the means and manner of executive
compensation have contributed to a reckless culture and a quarter-by-quarter mentality that
in turn helped to wrought havoc in our financial system. We're going to be taking a look at
broader reforms so that executives are compensated for sound risk management, and
rewarded for growth measured over years, not just days or weeks.
We all have to pull together and take our share of responsibility. That's true here in
Washington. That's true on Wall Street. The American people are carrying a huge burden as a
result of this economic crisis: bearing the brunt of its effects as well as the cost of
extraordinary measures we're taking to address them. The American people expect and
demand that we pursue policies that reflect the reality of this crisis -- and that will prevent
these kinds of crises from occurring again in the future.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329889" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Egypt_History_Revolution.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Egypt%20History%20Revolution.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Remarks on the Historic Revolution in Egypt
delivered 11 February 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

There are very few moments in our lives where we have the privilege to witness history taking
place. This is one of those moments. This is one of those times. The people of Egypt have
spoken, their voices have been heard, and Egypt will never be the same.
By stepping down, President Mubarak responded to the Egyptian people’s hunger for change.
But this is not the end of Egypt’s transition. It’s a beginning. I’m sure there will be difficult
days ahead, and many questions remain unanswered. But I am confident that the people of
Egypt can find the answers, and do so peacefully, constructively, and in the spirit of unity that
has defined these last few weeks. For Egyptians have made it clear that nothing less than
genuine democracy will carry the day.
The military has served patriotically and responsibly as a caretaker to the state, and will now
have to ensure a transition that is credible in the eyes of the Egyptian people. That means
protecting the rights of Egypt’s citizens, lifting the emergency law, revising the constitution
and other laws to make this change irreversible, and laying out a clear path to elections that
are fair and free. Above all, this transition must bring all of Egypt’s voices to the table. For
the spirit of peaceful protest and perseverance that the Egyptian people have shown can serve
as a powerful wind at the back of this change.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
The United States will continue to be a friend and partner to Egypt. We stand ready to
provide whatever assistance is necessary -- and asked for -- to pursue a credible transition to
a democracy. I’m also confident that the same ingenuity and entrepreneurial spirit that the
young people of Egypt have shown in recent days can be harnessed to create new opportunity
-- jobs and businesses that allow the extraordinary potential of this generation to take flight.
And I know that a democratic Egypt can advance its role of responsible leadership not only in
the region but around the world.
Egypt has played a pivotal role in human history for over 6,000 years. But over the last few
weeks, the wheel of history turned at a blinding pace as the Egyptian people demanded their
universal rights.
We saw mothers and fathers carrying their children on their shoulders to show them what true
freedom might look like.
We saw a young Egyptian say, “For the first time in my life, I really count. My voice is heard.
Even though I’m only one person, this is the way real democracy works.”
We saw protesters chant “Selmiyya, selmiyya” -- “We are peaceful” -- again and again.
We saw a military that would not fire bullets at the people they were sworn to protect.
And we saw doctors and nurses rushing into the streets to care for those who were wounded,
volunteers checking protesters to ensure that they were unarmed.
We saw people of faith praying together and chanting – “Muslims, Christians, We are one.”
And though we know that the strains between faiths still divide too many in this world and no
single event will close that chasm immediately, these scenes remind us that we need not be
defined by our differences. We can be defined by the common humanity that we share.
And above all, we saw a new generation emerge -- a generation that uses their own creativity
and talent and technology to call for a government that represented their hopes and not their
fears; a government that is responsive to their boundless aspirations. One Egyptian put it
simply: Most people have discovered in the last few days…that they are worth something,
and this cannot be taken away from them anymore, ever.
This is the power of human dignity, and it can never be denied. Egyptians have inspired us,
and they’ve done so by putting the lie to the idea that justice is best gained through violence.
For in Egypt, it was the moral force of nonviolence -- not terrorism, not mindless killing -- but
nonviolence, moral force that bent the arc of history toward justice once more.
And while the sights and sounds that we heard were entirely Egyptian, we can’t help but hear
the echoes of history -- echoes from Germans tearing down a wall, Indonesian students taking
to the streets, Gandhi leading his people down the path of justice.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
As Martin Luther King said in celebrating the birth of a new nation in Ghana while trying to
perfect his own, “There is something in the soul that cries out for freedom.” Those were the
cries that came from Tahrir Square, and the entire world has taken note.
Today belongs to the people of Egypt, and the American people are moved by these scenes in
Cairo and across Egypt because of who we are as a people and the kind of world that we want
our children to grow up in.
The word Tahrir means liberation. It is a word that speaks to that something in our souls that
cries out for freedom. And forevermore it will remind us of the Egyptian people -- of what
they did, of the things that they stood for, and how they changed their country, and in doing
so changed the world.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329810" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Elena_Kagan_USSC_Nomination.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Elena%20Kagan%20USSC%20Nomination.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Nomination of Elena Kagan for U.S. Supreme Court Justice
delivered 10 May 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat.
Good morning, everybody. Of the many responsibilities accorded to a President by our
Constitution, few are more weighty or consequential than that of appointing a Supreme Court
justice -- particularly one to succeed a giant in the law like Justice John Paul Stevens.
For nearly 35 years, Justice Stevens has stood as an impartial guardian of the law, faithfully
applying the core values of our founding to the cases and controversies of our time.
He has done so with restraint and respect for precedent -- understanding that a judge’s job is
to interpret, not make law -- but also with fidelity to the constitutional ideal of equal justice
for all. He’s brought to each case not just mastery of the letter of the law, but a keen
understanding of its impact on people’s lives. And he has emerged as a consistent voice of
reason, helping his colleagues find common ground on some of the most controversial and
contentious issues the Court has ever faced.
While we can't presume to replace Justice Stevens’ wisdom or experience, I have selected a
nominee who I believe embodies that same excellence, independence, integrity, and passion
for the law -- and who can ultimately provide that same kind of leadership on the Court: our
Solicitor General, and my friend, Elena Kagan.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Elena is widely regarded as one of the nation’s foremost legal minds. She’s an acclaimed legal
scholar with a rich understanding of constitutional law. She is a former White House aide with
a lifelong commitment to public service and a firm grasp of the nexus and boundaries between
our three branches of government. She is a trailblazing leader -- the first woman to serve as
Dean of Harvard Law School -- and one of the most successful and beloved deans in its
history. And she is a superb Solicitor General, our nation’s chief lawyer representing the
American people’s interests before the Supreme Court, the first woman in that position as
well. And she has won accolades from observers across the ideological spectrum for her wellreasoned arguments and commanding presence.
But Elena is respected and admired not just for her intellect and record of achievement, but
also for her temperament -- her openness to a broad array of viewpoints; her habit, to borrow
a phrase from Justice Stevens, “of understanding before disagreeing”; her fair-mindedness
and skill as a consensus-builder.
These traits were particularly evident during her tenure as dean. At a time when many
believed that the Harvard faculty had gotten a little one-sided in its viewpoint, she sought to
recruit prominent conservative scholars and spur a healthy debate on campus. And she
encouraged students from all backgrounds to respectfully exchange ideas and seek common
ground -- because she believes, as I do, that exposure to a broad array of perspectives is the
foundation not just for a sound legal education, but of a successful life in the law.
This appreciation for diverse views may also come in handy as a die-hard Mets fan serving
alongside her new colleague-to-be, Yankees fan Justice Sotomayor, who I believe has ordered
a pinstriped robe for the occasion.
But while Elena had a brilliant career in academia, her passion for the law is anything but
academic. She has often referred to Supreme Court Justice Thurgood Marshall, for whom she
clerked, as her hero. I understand that he reciprocated by calling her “Shorty.” Nonetheless,
she credits him with reminding her that, as she put it, “behind law there are stories -- stories
of people’s lives as shaped by the law, stories of people’s lives as might be changed by the
law…”
That understanding of law, not as an intellectual exercise or words on a page, but as it affects
the lives of ordinary people, has animated every step of Elena’s career -- including her service
as Solicitor General today.
During her time in this office, she’s repeatedly defended the rights of shareholders and
ordinary citizens against unscrupulous corporations. Last year, in the Citizens United case,
she defended bipartisan campaign finance reform against special interests seeking to spend
unlimited money to influence our elections. Despite long odds of success, with most legal
analysts believing the government was unlikely to prevail in this case, Elena still chose it as
her very first case to argue before the Court.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
I think that says a great deal not just about Elena’s tenacity, but about her commitment to
serving the American people. I think it says a great deal about her commitment to protect
our fundamental rights, because in a democracy, powerful interests must not be allowed to
drown out the voices of ordinary citizens.
And I think it says a great deal about the path that Elena has chosen. Someone as gifted as
Elena could easily have settled into a comfortable life in a corporate law practice. Instead,
she chose a life of service -- service to her students, service to her country, service to the law
and to all those whose lives it shapes.
And given Elena’s upbringing, it’s a choice that probably came naturally. Elena is the
granddaughter of immigrants whose mother was, for 20 years, a beloved public schoolteacher
-- as are her two brothers, who are here today. Her father was a housing lawyer, devoted to
the rights of tenants. Both were the first in their families to attend college. And from an early
age, they instilled in Elena not just the value of a good education, but the importance of using
it to serve others.
As she recalled during her Solicitor General confirmation hearings, “Both my parents wanted
me to succeed in my chosen profession. But more than that, both drilled into me the
importance of service, character, and integrity.”
Elena has also spoken movingly about how her mother had grown up at a time when women
had few opportunities to pursue their ambitions and took great joy in watching her daughter
do so.
Neither she, nor Elena’s father, lived to see this day. But I think her mother would relish this
moment. I think she would relish -- as I do -- the prospect of three women taking their seat
on the nation’s highest Court for the first time in history. A Court that would be more
inclusive, more representative, more reflective of us as a people than ever before.
And I think they would both be tremendously proud of their daughter -- a great lawyer, a
great teacher, and a devoted public servant who I am confident will make an outstanding
Supreme Court justice.
So I hope that the Senate will act in a bipartisan fashion, as they did in confirming Elena to be
our Solicitor General last year, and that they will do so as swiftly as possible, so she can get
busy and take her seat in time to fully participate in the work of the Court this fall.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329788" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Energy_Security_AAFB.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Energy%20Security%20AAFB.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Energy Security at Andrews Air Force Base
delivered 31 March 2010, Camp Springs, Maryland

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

I -- I've got a few introductions that I want to make very quickly before I start my remarks.
First of all, I think that by the end of his tenure we're going to know that Ken Salazar is one of
the finest Secretaries of Interior we've ever had. So please give him a big round of applause.
Other members of what we call our green team are here: Steven Chu, our Secretary of
Energy; Martha Johnson, the Administrator of the GSA; Nancy Sutley, the CEQ Chair. We've
got Carol Browner, who’s the White House Energy and Climate Change Director. Please give
them a big round of applause. They put in a lot of work.
Governor Martin O’Malley is here, governor of Maryland. Ray Mabus, Secretary of the Navy, is
here. Admiral Gary Roughead, Chief of Naval Operations, is here, and we appreciate his
outstanding service. Thank you, Gar.
I want to thank Steven Shepro, the base commander here at Andrews, and the leadership
that's present from the Air Force, the Marine Corps, and the Coast Guard.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Ken and I were colleagues in the Senate, and I appointed him because I knew that he would
be a faithful and pragmatic steward of our natural resources. And as Secretary, he is
changing the way that the Interior Department does business so that we’re responsibly
developing traditional sources of energy and renewable sources of energy, from the wind on
the high plains to the suns in the desert to the waves off our coasts. And so I'm very grateful
to the work that he’s done in culminating in one of the announcements that we’re making
today.
It’s also good to see so many members of our Armed Forces here today. Andrews is the home
of Air Force One, and I appreciate everything that you do for me and my family. I should
point out that you’ve got a 100-percent on-time departure record. You don’t charge for
luggage -- so it’s a pretty good deal. And I want to thank you not only for the support that
you provide me, but also for the service that you perform to keep our country safe each and
every day. So I'm very grateful to all of you.
We’re here to talk about America’s energy security, an issue that’s been a priority for my
administration since the day I took office. Already, we’ve made the largest investment in
clean energy in our nation’s history. It’s an investment that’s expected to create or save
more than 700,000 jobs across America -- jobs manufacturing advanced batteries for more
efficient vehicles; upgrading the power grid so that it’s smarter and it’s stronger; doubling our
nation’s capacity to generate renewable electricity from sources like the wind and the sun.
And just a few months after taking office, I also gathered the leaders of the world’s largest
automakers, the heads of labor unions, environmental advocates, and public officials from
California and across the country to reach a historic agreement to raise fuel economy
standards in cars and trucks. And tomorrow, after decades in which we have done little to
increase auto efficiency, those new standards will be finalized, which will reduce our
dependence on oil while helping folks spend a little less at the pump.
So my administration is upholding its end of the deal, and we expect all parties to do the
same. And I’d also point out this rule that we’re going to be announcing about increased
mileage standards will save 1.8 billion -- billion barrels of oil overall -- 1.8 billion barrels of
oil. And that’s like taking 58 million cars off the road for an entire year.
Today, we’re also going to go one step further. In order to save energy and taxpayer dollars,
my administration -- led by Secretary Chu at Energy, as well as Administrator Johnson at GSA
-- is doubling the number of hybrid vehicles in the federal fleet, even as we seek to reduce the
number of cars and trucks used by our government overall. So we’re going to lead by
example and practice what we preach: cutting waste, saving energy, and reducing our
reliance on foreign oil.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
But we have to do more. We need to make continued investments in clean coal technologies
and advanced biofuels. A few weeks ago, I announced loan guarantees to break ground on
America’s first new nuclear facility in three decades, a project that will create thousands of
jobs. And in the short term, as we transition to cleaner energy sources, we’ve still got to
make some tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for oil and gas development in
ways that protect communities and protect coastlines.
This is not a decision that I’ve made lightly. It’s one that Ken and I -- as well as Carol
Browner, my energy advisor, and others in my administration -- looked at closely for more
than a year. But the bottom line is this: Given our energy needs, in order to sustain
economic growth and produce jobs, and keep our businesses competitive, we are going to
need to harness traditional sources of fuel even as we ramp up production of new sources of
renewable, homegrown energy.
So today we’re announcing the expansion of offshore oil and gas exploration, but in ways that
balance the need to harness domestic energy resources and the need to protect America’s
natural resources. Under the leadership of Secretary Salazar, we’ll employ new technologies
that reduce the impact of oil exploration. We’ll protect areas that are vital to tourism, the
environment, and our national security. And we’ll be guided not by political ideology, but by
scientific evidence.
That's why my administration will consider potential areas for development in the mid and
south Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico, while studying and protecting sensitive areas in the
Arctic. That’s why we’ll continue to support development of leased areas off the North Slope
of Alaska, while protecting Alaska’s Bristol Bay.
There will be those who strongly disagree with this decision, including those who say we
should not open any new areas to drilling. But what I want to emphasize is that this
announcement is part of a broader strategy that will move us from an economy that runs on
fossil fuels and foreign oil to one that relies more on homegrown fuels and clean energy. And
the only way this transition will succeed is if it strengthens our economy in the short term and
the long run. To fail to recognize this reality would be a mistake.
On the other side, there are going to be some who argue that we don’t go nearly far enough;
who suggest we should open all our waters to energy exploration without any restriction or
regard for the broader environmental and economic impact. And to those folks I’ve got to say
this: We have less than 2 percent of the world’s oil reserves; we consume more than 20
percent of the world’s oil. And what that means is that drilling alone can’t come close to
meeting our long-term energy needs. And for the sake of our planet and our energy
independence, we need to begin the transition to cleaner fuels now.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So the answer is not drilling everywhere all the time. But the answer is not, also, for us to
ignore the fact that we are going to need vital energy sources to maintain our economic
growth and our security. Ultimately, we need to move beyond the tired debates of the left
and the right, between business leaders and environmentalists, between those who would
claim drilling is a cure all and those who would claim it has no place. Because this issue is
just too important to allow our progress to languish while we fight the same old battles over
and over again.
For decades we’ve talked about how our dependence on foreign oil threatens our economy -–
yet our will to act rises and falls with the price of a barrel of oil. When gas gets expensive at
the pump, suddenly everybody is an energy expert. And when it goes back down, everybody
is back to their old habits.
For decades we’ve talked about the threat to future generations posed by our current system
of energy –- even as we can see the mounting evidence of climate change from the Arctic
Circle to the Gulf Coast. And this is particularly relevant to all of you who are serving in
uniform: For decades, we’ve talked about the risks to our security created by dependence on
foreign oil, but that dependence has actually grown year after year after year after year.
And while our politics has remained entrenched along these worn divides, the ground has
shifted beneath our feet. Around the world, countries are seeking an edge in the global
marketplace by investing in new ways of producing and saving energy. From China to
Germany, these nations recognize that the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be
the country that leads the global economy. And meanwhile, here at home, as politicians in
Washington debate endlessly about whether to act, our own military has determined that we
can no longer afford not to.
Some of the press may be wondering why we are announcing offshore drilling in a hangar at
Andrews Air Force Base. Well, if there’s any doubt about the leadership that our military is
showing, you just need to look at this F-18 fighter and the light-armored vehicle behind me.
The Army and Marine Corps have been testing this vehicle on a mixture of biofuels. And this
Navy fighter jet -- appropriately called the Green Hornet -- will be flown for the first time in
just a few days, on Earth Day. If tests go as planned, it will be the first plane ever to fly
faster than the speed of sound on a fuel mix that is half biomass. The Air Force is also testing
jet engines using biofuels and had the first successful biofuel-powered test flight just last
week. I don’t want to drum up any kind of rivalry here, but -Now, the Pentagon isn’t seeking these alternative fuels just to protect our environment;
they’re pursuing these homegrown energy sources to protect our national security. Our
military leaders recognize the security imperative of increasing the use of alternative fuels,
decreasing energy use, reducing our reliance on imported oil, making ourselves more energyefficient. That’s why the Navy, led by Secretary Mabus, who’s here today, has set a goal of
using 50-percent alternative fuels in all planes, vehicles, and ships in the next 10 years.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s why the Defense Department has invested 2.7 billion dollars this year alone to improve
energy efficiency.
So moving towards clean energy is about our security. It’s also about our economy. And it’s
about the future of our planet. And what I hope is, is the policies that we’ve laid out -- from
hybrid fleets to offshore drilling, from nuclear energy to wind energy -- underscores the
seriousness with which my administration takes this challenge. It’s a challenge that requires
us to break out of the old ways of thinking, to think and act anew. And it requires each of us,
regardless of whether we’re in the private sector or the public sector, whether we’re in the
military or in the civilian side of government, to think about how could we be doing things
better, how could we be doing things smarter -- so that we are no longer tethered to the
whims of what happens somewhere in the Middle East or with other major oil-producing
nations.
So I’m open to proposals from my Democratic friends and my Republican friends. I think that
we can break out of the broken politics of the past when it comes to our energy policy. I
know that we can come together to pass comprehensive energy and climate legislation that’s
going to foster new energy -- new industries, create millions of new jobs, protect our planet,
and help us become more energy independent. That’s what we can do. That is what we must
do. And I’m confident that is what we will do.
So thank you very much. And thanks, again, to all of you who are serving in our Armed
Services. You are making an enormous contribution, and this is just one example of the
leadership that you’re showing.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329909" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Energy_Security_Georgetown.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Energy%20Security%20Georgetown.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
American Energy Security

Delivered 30 March 2011, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

It is wonderful to be back at Georgetown.
We've got a number of acknowledgements. First of all, I just want to thank President DeGioia for his
outstanding leadership here, but also for his hospitality.
We also have here Secretary Steven Chu, my Energy Secretary. Where is Steven? There he is over there.
Secretary Ken Salazar of the Interior Department. Secretary Tom Vilsack, our Agriculture Secretary. Ray
LaHood, our Transportation Secretary. Lisa Jackson, our EPA Administrator. Nancy Sutley, who is our
Council on Environmental Quality director, right here.
A couple of great members of Congress -- Congressman Jay Inslee of Washington. Where’s Jay? There he
is over there. And Rush Holt of New Jersey is here. We've got -- he didn’t bring the weather with him -- but
the mayor of Los Angeles, Antonio Villaraigosa, is in the house. Mayor Scott Smith of Mesa, Arizona, is
here.
And most importantly, the students of Georgetown University are in the house.
I want to start with a difficult subject: The Hoyas had a tough loss, Coach. Coach is here, too, and I love
Coach Thompson. I love his dad and the great tradition that they’ve had. And it turned out VCU was pretty
good. I had Georgetown winning that game in my bracket, so we’re all hurting here. But that's what next
year is for.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We meet here at a tumultuous time for the world. In a matter of months, we’ve seen regimes toppled. We've
seen democracy take root in North Africa and in the Middle East. We’ve witnessed a terrible earthquake, a
catastrophic tsunami, a nuclear emergency that has battered one of our strongest allies and closest friends
in the world’s third-largest economy. We’ve led an international effort in Libya to prevent a massacre and
maintain stability throughout the broader region.
And as Americans, we’re heartbroken by the lives that have been lost as a result of these events. We’re
deeply moved by the thirst for freedom in so many nations, and we’re moved by the strength and the
perseverance of the Japanese people. And it’s natural, I think, to feel anxious about what all of this means
for us.
And one big area of concern has been the cost and security of our energy. Obviously, the situation in the
Middle East implicates our energy security. The situation in Japan leads us to ask questions about our
energy sources.
In an economy that relies so heavily on oil, rising prices at the pump affect everybody -- workers, farmers,
truck drivers, restaurant owners, students who are lucky enough to have a car. Businesses see rising prices
at the pump hurt their bottom line. Families feel the pinch when they fill up their tank. And for Americans that
are already struggling to get by, a hike in gas prices really makes their lives that much harder. It hurts.
If you’re somebody who works in a relatively low-wage job and you’ve got to commute to work, it takes up a
big chunk of your income. You may not be able to buy as many groceries. You may have to cut back on
medicines in order to fill up the gas tank. So this is something that everybody is affected by.
Now, here’s the thing -- we have been down this road before. Remember, it was just three years ago that
gas prices topped $4 a gallon. I remember because I was in the middle of a presidential campaign. Working
folks certainly remember because it hit a lot of people pretty hard. And because we were at the height of
political season, you had all kinds of slogans and gimmicks and outraged politicians -- they were waving
their three-point plans for $2 a gallon gas. You remember that -- “drill, baby, drill”
-- and we were going through all that. And none of it was really going to do anything to solve the problem.
There was a lot of hue and cry, a lot of fulminating and hand-wringing, but nothing actually happened.
Imagine that in Washington.
The truth is, none of these gimmicks, none of these slogans made a bit of difference. When gas prices
finally did fall, it was mostly because the global recession had led to less demand for oil. Companies were
producing less; the demand for petroleum went down; prices went down. Now that the economy is
recovering, demand is back up. Add the turmoil in the Middle East, and it’s not surprising that oil prices are
higher. And every time the price of a barrel of oil on the world market rises by $10, a gallon of gas goes up
by about 25 cents.
The point is the ups and downs in gas prices historically have tended to be temporary. But when you look at
the long-term trends, there are going to be more ups in gas prices than downs in gas prices. And that’s
because you’ve got countries like India and China that are growing at a rapid clip, and as 2 billion more
people start consuming more goods -- they want cars just like we’ve got cars; they want to use energy to

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
make their lives a little easier just like we’ve got -- it is absolutely certain that demand will go up a lot faster
than supply. It’s just a fact.
So here’s the bottom line: There are no quick fixes. Anybody who tells you otherwise isn’t telling you the
truth. And we will keep on being a victim to shifts in the oil market until we finally get serious about a longterm policy for a secure, affordable energy future.
We’re going to have to think long term, which is why I came here, to talk to young people here at
Georgetown, because you have more of a stake in us getting our energy policy right than just about
anybody.
Now, here’s a source of concern, though. We’ve known about the dangers of our oil dependence for
decades. Richard Nixon talked about freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. And every President
since that time has talked about freeing ourselves from dependence on foreign oil. Politicians of every stripe
have promised energy independence, but that promise has so far gone unmet.
I talked about reducing America’s dependence on oil when I was running for President, and I’m proud of the
historic progress that we’ve made over the last two years towards that goal, and we’ll talk about that a little
bit. But I’ve got to be honest. We’ve run into the same political gridlock, the same inertia that has held us
back for decades.
That has to change. That has to change. We cannot keep going from shock when gas prices go up to trance
when they go back down -- we go back to doing the same things we’ve been doing until the next time
there’s a price spike, and then we’re shocked again. We can’t rush to propose action when gas prices are
high and then hit the snooze button when they fall again. We can’t keep on doing that.
The United States of America cannot afford to bet our long-term prosperity, our long-term security on a
resource that will eventually run out, and even before it runs out will get more and more expensive to extract
from the ground. We can’t afford it when the costs to our economy, our country, and our planet are so high.
Not when your generation needs us to get this right. It’s time to do what we can to secure our energy future.
And today, I want to announce a new goal, one that is reasonable, one that is achievable, and one that is
necessary.
When I was elected to this office, America imported 11 million barrels of oil a day. By a little more than a
decade from now, we will have cut that by one-third. That is something that we can achieve. We can cut our
oil dependence -- we can cut our oil dependence by a third.
I set this goal knowing that we’re still going to have to import some oil. It will remain an important part of our
energy portfolio for quite some time, until we’ve gotten alternative energy strategies fully in force. And when
it comes to the oil we import from other nations, obviously we’ve got to look at neighbors like Canada and
Mexico that are stable and steady and reliable sources. We also have to look at other countries like Brazil.
Part of the reason I went down there is to talk about energy with the Brazilians. They recently discovered
significant new oil reserves, and we can share American technology and know-how with them as they
develop these resources.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But our best opportunities to enhance our energy security can be found in our own backyard -- because we
boast one critical, renewable resource that the rest of the world can’t match: American ingenuity. American
ingenuity, American know-how.
To make ourselves more secure, to control our energy future, we’re going to have to harness all of that
ingenuity. It’s a task we won’t be finished with by the end of my presidency, or even by the end of the next
presidency. But if we continue the work that we’ve already begun over the last two years, we won’t just
spark new jobs, industries and innovations -- we will leave your generation and future generations with a
country that is safer, that is healthier, and that’s more prosperous.
So today, my administration is releasing a Blueprint for a Secure Energy Future that outlines a
comprehensive national energy policy, one that we’ve been pursuing since the day I took office. And cutting
our oil dependence by a third is part of that plan.
Here at Georgetown, I’d like to talk in broad strokes about how we can achieve these goals.
Now, meeting the goal of cutting our oil dependence depends largely on two things: first, finding and
producing more oil at home; second, reducing our overall dependence on oil with cleaner alternative fuels
and greater efficiency.
This begins by continuing to increase America’s oil supply. Even for those of you who are interested in
seeing a reduction in our dependence on fossil fuels -- and I know how passionate young people are about
issues like climate change -- the fact of the matter is, is that for quite some time, America is going to be still
dependent on oil in making its economy work.
Now, last year, American oil production reached its highest level since 2003. And for the first time in more
than a decade, oil we imported accounted for less than half of the liquid fuel we consumed. So that was a
good trend. To keep reducing that reliance on imports, my administration is encouraging offshore oil
exploration and production -- as long as it’s safe and responsible.
I don’t think anybody here has forgotten what happened last year, where we had to deal with the largest oil
spill in [our] history. I know some of the fishermen down in the Gulf Coast haven’t forgotten it. And what we
learned from that disaster helped us put in place smarter standards of safety and responsibility. For
example, if you’re going to drill in deepwater, you’ve got to prove before you start drilling that you can
actually contain an underwater spill. That’s just common sense. And lately, we’ve been hearing folks saying,
well, the Obama administration, they put restrictions on how oil companies operate offshore. Well, yes,
because we just spent all that time, energy and money trying to clean up a big mess. And I don't know about
you, but I don't have amnesia. I remember these things. And I think it was important for us to make sure that
we prevent something like that from happening again.
Now, today, we’re working to expedite new drilling permits for companies that meet these higher standards.
Since they were put in, we’ve approved 39 new shallow-water permits; we’ve approved seven deepwater
permits in recent weeks.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
When it comes to drilling offshore, my administration approved more than two permits last year for every
new well that the industry started to drill. So any claim that my administration is responsible for gas prices
because we’ve “shut down” oil production, any claim like that is simply untrue. It might make for a useful
sound bite, but it doesn’t track with reality.
What is true is we’ve said if you’re going to drill offshore you’ve got to have a plan to make sure that we
don’t have the kind of catastrophe that we had last year. And I don’t think that there’s anybody who should
dispute that that’s the right strategy to pursue.
Moreover, we’re actually pushing the oil industry to take advantage of the opportunities that they’ve already
got. Right now the industry holds tens of millions of acres of leases where they’re not producing a single
drop. They’re just sitting on supplies of American energy that are ready to be tapped. That’s why part of our
plan is to provide new and better incentives that promote rapid, responsible development of these
resources.
We’re also exploring and assessing new frontiers for oil and gas development from Alaska to the Mid- and
South Atlantic states, because producing more oil in America can help lower oil prices, can help create jobs,
and can enhance our energy security, but we’ve got to do it in the right way.
Now, even if we increase domestic oil production, that is not going to be the long-term solution to our energy
challenge. I give out this statistic all the time, and forgive me for repeating it again: America holds about 2
percent of the world’s proven oil reserves. What that means is, is that even if we drilled every drop of oil out
of every single one of the reserves that we possess -- offshore and onshore -- it still wouldn’t be enough to
meet our long-term needs. We consume about 25 percent of the world’s oil. We only have 2 percent of the
reserves. Even if we doubled U.S. oil production, we’re still really short.
So the only way for America’s energy supply to be truly secure is by permanently reducing our dependence
on oil. We’re going to have to find ways to boost our efficiency so we use less oil. We’ve got to discover and
produce cleaner, renewable sources of energy that also produce less carbon pollution, which is threatening
our climate. And we’ve got to do it quickly.
Now, in terms of new sources of energy, we have a few different options. The first is natural gas. Recent
innovations have given us the opportunity to tap large reserves –- perhaps a century’s worth of reserves, a
hundred years worth of reserves -– in the shale under our feet. But just as is true in terms of us extracting oil
from the ground, we’ve got to make sure that we’re extracting natural gas safely, without polluting our water
supply.
That’s why I’ve asked Secretary Chu, my Energy Secretary, to work with other agencies, the natural gas
industry, states, and environmental experts to improve the safety of this process. And Chu is the right guy to
do this. He’s got a Nobel Prize in physics. He actually deserved his Nobel Prize.
And this is the kind of thing that he likes to do for fun on the weekend. He goes into his garage and he
tinkers around and figures out how to extract natural gas.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’m going to embarrass him further. Last year, when we were trying to fill -- figure out how to close the cap, I
sent Chu down to sit in the BP offices, and he essentially designed the cap that ultimately worked, and he
drew up the specs for it and had BP build it, construct it. So this is somebody who knows what he’s doing.
So for those of you who are studying physics, it may actually pay off someday.
But the potential for natural gas is enormous. And this is an area where there’s actually been some broad
bipartisan agreement. Last year, more than 150 members of Congress from both sides of the aisle produced
legislation providing incentives to use clean-burning natural gas in our vehicles instead of oil. And that's a
big deal. Getting 150 members of Congress to agree on anything is a big deal. And they were even joined
by T. Boone Pickens, a businessman who made his fortune on oil, but who is out there making the simple
point that we can’t simply drill our way out of our energy problems.
So I ask members of Congress and all the interested parties involved to keep at it, pass a bill that helps us
achieve the goal of extracting natural gas in a safe, environmentally sound way.
Now, another substitute for oil that holds tremendous promise is renewable biofuels -- not just ethanol, but
biofuels made from things like switchgrass and wood chips and biomass.
If anybody doubts the potential of these fuels, consider Brazil. As I said, I was just there last week. Half of
Brazil’s vehicles can run on biofuels -- half of their fleet of automobiles can run on biofuels instead of
petroleum. Just last week, our Air Force -- our own Air Force -- used an advanced biofuel blend to fly a
Raptor 22 -- an F-22 Raptor faster than the speed of sound. Think about that. I mean, if an F-22 Raptor can
fly at the speed of -- faster than the speed of sound on biomass, then I know the old beater that you’ve got,
that you’re driving around in -- can probably do so, too. There’s no reason why we can’t have our cars do
the same.
In fact, the Air Force is aiming to get half of its domestic jet fuel from alternative sources by 2016. And I’m
directing the Navy and the Department of Energy and Agriculture to work with the private sector to create
advanced biofuels that can power not just fighter jets, but also trucks and commercial airliners.
So there’s no reason we shouldn’t be using these renewable fuels throughout America. And that’s why we’re
investing in things like fueling stations and research into the next generation of biofuels. One of the biggest
problems we have with alternative energy is not just producing the energy, but also distributing it. We’ve got
gas stations all around the country, so whenever you need gas you know you can fill up -- it doesn’t matter
where you are. Well, we’ve got to have that same kind of distribution network when it comes to our
renewable energy sources so that when you are converting to a different kind of car that runs on a different
kind of energy, you’re going to be able to have that same convenience. Otherwise, the market won’t work; it
won’t grow.
Over the next two years, we’ll help entrepreneurs break ground for four next-generation biorefineries -- each
with a capacity of more than 20 million gallons per year. And going forward, we should look for ways to
reform biofuels incentives to make sure that they’re meeting today’s challenges and that they’re also saving
taxpayers money.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
So as we replace oil with fuels like natural gas and biofuels, we can also reduce our dependence by making
cars and trucks that use less oil in the first place. Seventy percent of our petroleum consumption goes to
transportation -- 70 percent. And by the way, so does the second biggest chunk of most families’ budgets
goes into transportation. And that’s why one of the best ways to make our economy less dependent on oil
and save folks more money is to make our transportation sector more efficient.
Now, we went through 30 years where we didn’t raise fuel efficiency standards on cars. And part of what
happened in the U.S. auto industry was because oil appeared relatively cheap, the U.S. auto industry
decided we’re just going to make our money on SUVs, and we’re not going to worry about fuel efficiency.
Thirty years of lost time when it comes to technology that could improve the efficiency of cars.
So last year, we established a groundbreaking national fuel efficiency standard for cars and trucks. We did
this last year without legislation. We just got all the parties together and we got them to agree -- automakers,
autoworkers, environmental groups, industry.
So that means our cars will be getting better gas mileage, saving 1.8 billion barrels of oil over the life of the
program -- 1.8 billion. Our consumers will save money from fewer trips to the pump -- $3,000 on average
over time you will save because of these higher fuel efficiency standards. And our automakers will build
more innovative products. Right now, there are even cars rolling off the assembly lines in Detroit with
combustion engines -- I’m not talking about hybrids -- combustion engines that get more than 50 miles per
gallon. So we know how to do it. We know how to make our cars more efficient.
But going forward, we’re going to continue to work with the automakers, with the autoworkers, with states, to
ensure the high-quality, fuel-efficient cars and trucks of tomorrow are built right here in the United States of
America. That’s going to be a top priority for us.
This summer, we’re going to propose the first-ever fuel efficiency standards for heavy-duty trucks. And this
fall, we’ll announce the next round of fuel standards for cars that builds on what we’ve already done.
And by the way, the federal government is going to need to lead by example. The fleet of cars and trucks we
use in the federal government is one of the largest in the country. We’ve got a lot of cars. And that’s why
we’ve already doubled the number of alternative vehicles in the federal fleet. And that’s why today I am
directing agencies to purchase 100 percent alternative fuel, hybrid, or electric vehicles by 2015. All of them
should be alternative fuel.
Going forward, we’ll partner with private companies that want to upgrade their large fleets. And this means,
by the way, that you students, as consumers or future consumers of cars, you’ve got to make sure that you
are boosting demand for alternative vehicles. You’re going to have a responsibility as well, because if
alternative-fuel vehicles are manufactured but you guys aren’t buying them, then folks will keep on making
cars that don’t have the same fuel efficiency. So you’ve got power in this process, and the decisions you
make individually in your lives will say something about how serious we are when it comes to energy
independence.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
We’ve also made historic investments in high-speed rail and mass transit, because part of making our
transportation sector cleaner and more efficient involves offering all Americans, whether they are urban,
suburban, or rural, the choice to be mobile without having to get in a car and pay for gas.
Still, there are few breakthroughs as promising for increasing fuel efficiency and reducing our dependence
on oil as electric vehicles. Soon after I took office, I set a goal of having one million electric vehicles on our
roads by 2015. We’ve created incentives for American companies to develop these vehicles, and for
Americans who want them to buy them.
So new manufacturing plants are opening over the next few years. And a modest $2 billion investment in
competitive grants for companies to develop the next generation of batteries for these cars has jumpstarted
a big new American industry. Pretty soon, America will be home to 40 percent of global manufacturing
capacity for these advanced batteries.
And for those of you who are wondering what that means, the thing that’s been holding back electric
vehicles is the battery that stores that electricity, that energy. And the more efficient, the more lightweight we
can make those batteries, the easier it is to manufacture those cars at a competitive price.
And if we can have that industry here in the United States of America, that means jobs. If those batteries are
made here, the cars are made here. Those cars are made here, we’re putting Americans back to work.
Now, to make sure we stay on this goal we’re going to need to do more -- by offering more powerful
incentives to consumers, and by rewarding the communities that pave the way for the adoption of these
vehicles.
Now, one other thing about electric cars -- and you don't need to talk to Chu about this -- it turns out electric
cars run on electricity. And so even if we reduce our oil dependency, and we’re producing all these great
electric cars, we’re going to have to have a plan to change the way we generate electricity in America so
that it’s cleaner and safer and healthier. We know that ushering in a clean energy economy has the potential
of creating untold numbers of new jobs and new businesses right here in the United States. But we’re going
to have to think about how do we produce electricity more efficiently.
Now, in addition to producing it, we actually also have to think about making sure we’re not wasting energy.
I don't know how we’re doing on the Georgetown campus, Mr. President, but every institution and every
household has to start thinking about how are we reducing the amount of energy that we’re using and doing
it in more efficient ways.
Today, our homes and businesses consume 40 percent of the energy that we use, and it costs us billions of
dollars in energy bills. Manufacturers that require large amounts of energy to make their products, they're
challenged by rising energy costs. And so you can’t separate the issue of oil dependence from the issue of
how we are producing generally -- more energy generally.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that’s why we’ve proposed new programs to help Americans upgrade their homes and businesses and
plants with new, energy-efficient building materials -- new lighting, new windows, new heating and cooling
systems -- investments that will save consumers and business owners tens of billions of dollars a year, and
free up money for investment and hiring and creating new jobs and hiring more workers and putting
contractors to work as well.
The nice thing about energy efficiency is we already have the technology. We don’t have to create
something new. We just have to help businesses and homeowners put in place the installation, the energyefficient windows, the energy-efficient lighting. They’ll get their money back. You will save money on your
electricity bill that pays for those improvements that you made, but a lot of people may not have the money
up front, and so we’ve got to give them some incentives to do that.
And just like the fuels we use in our cars, we’re going to have to find cleaner renewable sources of
electricity. Today, about two-fifths of our electricity come from clean energy sources. But we can do better
than that. I think that with the right incentives in place, we can double our use of clean energy. And that’s
why, in my State of the Union address back in January, I called for a new Clean Energy Standard for
America: By 2035, 80 percent of our electricity needs to come from a wide range of clean energy sources -renewables like wind and solar, efficient natural gas. And, yes, we’re going to have to examine how do we
make clean coal and nuclear power work.
Now, in light of the ongoing events in Japan, I want to just take a minute to talk about nuclear power. Right
now, America gets about one-fifth of our electricity from nuclear energy. And it’s important to recognize that
nuclear energy doesn’t emit carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. So those of us who are concerned about
climate change, we’ve got to recognize that nuclear power, if it’s safe, can make a significant contribution to
the climate change question.
And I’m determined to ensure that it’s safe. So in light of what’s happened in Japan, I’ve requested a
comprehensive safety review by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to make sure that all of our existing
nuclear energy facilities are safe. And we’re going incorporate those conclusions and lessons from Japan in
design and the building of the next generation of plants. But we can’t simply take it off the table.
My administration is leading global discussions towards a new international framework in which all countries
who are operating nuclear plants are making sure that they’re not spreading dangerous nuclear materials
and technology.
But more broadly, a clean energy standard can expand the scope of clean energy investments because
what it does is it gives cutting-edge companies the certainty that they need to invest. Essentially what it
does is it says to companies, you know what, you will have a customer if you’re producing clean energy.
Utilities, they need to buy a certain amount of clean energy in their overall portfolio, and that means that
innovators are willing to make those big capital investments.
And we’ve got to start now because -- think about this -- in the 1980s, America was home to more than 80
percent of the world’s wind capacity, 90 percent of the world’s solar capacity. We were the leaders in wind.
We were the leaders in solar. We owned the clean energy economy in the ‘80s. Guess what. Today, China
has the most wind capacity.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
Germany has the most solar capacity. Both invest more in clean energy than we do, even though we are a
larger economy and a substantially larger user of energy. We’ve fallen behind on what is going to be the key
to our future.
Other countries are now exporting technology we pioneered and they’re going after the jobs that come with
it because they know that the countries that lead the 21st century clean energy economy will be the
countries that lead the 21st century global economy.
I want America to be that nation. I want America to win the future.
So a clean energy standard will help drive private investment in innovation. But I want to make this point:
Government funding will still be critical. Over the past two years, the historic investments my administration
has made in clean and renewable energy research and technology have helped private sector companies
grow and hire hundreds of thousands of new workers.
I’ve visited gleaming new solar arrays that are among the largest in the world. I've tested an electric vehicle
fresh off the assembly line. I mean, I didn’t really test it -- I was able to drive like five feet before Secret
Service said to stop. I’ve toured factories that used to be shuttered, where they’re now building advanced
wind blades that are as long as 747s, and they’re building the towers that support them. And I’ve seen the
scientists that are searching for the next big breakthrough in energy. None of this would have happened
without government support.
I understand we’ve got a tight fiscal situation, so it’s fair to ask how do we pay for government’s investment
in energy. And as we debate our national priorities and our budget in Congress, we’re going to have to
make some tough choices. We’re going to have to cut what we don’t need to invest in what we do need.
Unfortunately, some folks want to cut critical investments in clean energy. They want to cut our research
and development into new technologies. They’re shortchanging the resources necessary even to promptly
issue new permits for offshore drilling. These cuts would eliminate thousands of private sector jobs; it would
terminate scientists and engineers; it would end fellowships for researchers, some who may be here at
Georgetown, graduate students and other talent that we desperately need to get into this area in the 21st
century. That doesn’t make sense.
We’re already paying a price for our inaction. Every time we fill up at the pump, every time we lose a job or a
business to countries that are investing more than we do in clean energy, when it comes to our air, our
water, and the climate change that threatens the planet that you will inherit -- we’re already paying a price.
These are costs that we are already bearing. And if we do nothing, the price will only go up.
So at moments like these, sacrificing these investments in research and development, in supporting clean
energy technologies, that would weaken our energy economy and make us more dependent on oil. That’s
not a game plan to win the future. That’s a vision to keep us mired in the past. I will not accept that outcome
for the United States of America. We are not going to do that.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Let me close by speaking directly to the students here -- the next generation who are going to be writing the
next great chapter in the American story. The issue of energy independence is one that America has been
talking about since before your parents were your age, since before you were born. And you also happen to
go to a school [in a town] that for a long time has suffered from a chronic unwillingness to come together
and make tough choices. And so I forgive you for thinking that maybe there isn’t much we can do to rise to
this challenge. Maybe some of you are feeling kind of cynical or skeptical about whether we’re actually
going to solve this problem. But everything I have seen and experienced with your generation convinces me
otherwise.
I think that precisely because you are coming of age at a time of such rapid and sometimes unsettling
change, born into a world with fewer walls, educated in an era of constant information, tempered by war and
economic turmoil -- because that’s the world in which you’re coming of age, I think you believe as deeply as
any of our previous generations that America can change and it can change for the better.
We need that. We need you to dream big. We need you to summon that same spirit of unbridled optimism
and that bold willingness to tackle tough challenges and see those challenges through that led previous
generations to rise to greatness -- to save a democracy, to touch the moon, to connect the world with our
own science and our own imagination.
That’s what America is capable of. That's what you have to push America to do, and it will be you that
pushes it. That history of ours, of meeting challenges -- that's your birthright. You understand that there’s no
problem out there that is not within our power to solve.
I don’t want to leave this challenge for future Presidents. I don’t want to leave it for my children. I don’t want
to leave it for your children. So, yes, solving it will take time and it will take effort. It will require our brightest
scientists, our most creative companies. It will require all of us -- Democrats, Republicans, and everybody in
between -- to do our part. But with confidence in America and in ourselves and in one another, I know this is
a challenge that we will solve.
Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329801" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Eulogy_West_Virginia_Coal_Miners.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Eulogy%20West%20Virginia%20Coal%20Miners.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Memorial Service Address for Upper Branch Coal Miners
delivered 25 April 2010, Beckley, West Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Please be seated.
To all the families who loved so deeply the miners we’ve lost; to all who called them friends,
worked alongside them in the mines, or knew them as neighbors, in Montcoal and Naoma, or
Whitesville, in the Coal River Valley and across West Virginia -– let me begin by saying that
we have been mourning with you throughout these difficult days. Our hearts have been aching
with you. We keep our thoughts with the survivors who are recovering and resting at the
hospital and at the homes. We're thankful for the rescue teams. But our hearts ache alongside
you.
We’re here to memorialize 29 Americans: Carl Acord. Jason Atkins. Christopher Bell. Gregory
Steven Brock. Kenneth Allan Chapman. Robert Clark. Charles Timothy Davis. Cory Davis.
Michael Lee Elswick. William I. Griffith. Steven Harrah. Edward Dean Jones. Richard K. Lane.
William Roosevelt Lynch. Nicholas Darrell McCroskey. Joe Marcum. Ronald Lee Maynor. James
E. Mooney. Adam Keith Morgan. Rex L. Mullins. Joshua S. Napper. Howard D. Payne. Dillard
Earl Persinger. Joel R. Price. Deward Scott. Gary Quarles. Grover Dale Skeens. Benny
Willingham. And Ricky Workman.
Nothing I, or the Vice President, or the Governor, none of the speakers here today, nothing
we say can fill the hole they leave in your hearts, or the absence that they leave in your lives.
If any comfort can be found, it can, perhaps, be found by seeking the face of God -- who
quiets our troubled minds, a God who mends our broken hearts, a God who eases our
mourning souls.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Even as we mourn 29 lives lost, we also remember 29 lives lived. Up at 4:30 a.m., 5:00 in the
morning at the latest, they began their day, as they worked, in darkness. In coveralls and
hard-toe boots, a hardhat over their heads, they would sit quietly for their hour-long journey,
five miles into a mountain, the only light the lamp on their caps, or the glow from the mantrip
they rode in.
Day after day, they would burrow into the coal, the fruits of their labor, what so often we take
for granted: the electricity that lights up a convention center; that lights up our church or our
home, our school, our office; the energy that powers our country; the energy that powers the
world.
And most days they’d emerge from the dark mine, squinting at the light. Most days, they’d
emerge, sweaty and dirty and dusted from coal. Most days, they’d come home. But not that
day.
These men -- these husbands, fathers, grandfathers, brothers sons, uncles, nephews -- they
did not take on their job unaware of the perils. Some of them had already been injured; some
of them had seen a friend get hurt. So they understood there were risks. And their families
did, too. They knew their kids would say a prayer at night before they left. They knew their
wives would wait for a call when their shift ended saying everything was okay. They knew
their parents felt a pang of fear every time a breaking news alert came on, or the radio cut in.
But they left for the mines anyway -- some, having waited all their lives to be miners; having
longed to follow in the footsteps of their fathers and their grandfathers. And yet, none of them
did it for themselves alone.
All that hard work, all that hardship, all the time spent underground, it was all for the families.
It was all for you. For a car in the driveway, a roof overhead. For a chance to give their kids
opportunities that they would never know, and enjoy retirement with their spouses. It was all
in the hopes of something better. And so these miners lived -- as they died -- in pursuit of the
American Dream.
There, in the mines, for their families, they became a family themselves -- sharing birthdays,
relaxing together, watching Mountaineers football or basketball together, spending days off
together, hunting or fishing. They may not have always loved what they did, said a sister, but
they loved doing it together. They loved doing it as a family. They loved doing it as a
community.
That’s a spirit that’s reflected in a song that almost every American knows. But it’s a song
most people, I think, would be surprised was actually written by a coal miner’s son about this
town, Beckley, about the people of West Virginia. It’s the song, Lean on Me -- an anthem of
friendship, but also an anthem of community, of coming together.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That community was revealed for all to see in the minutes, and hours, and days after the
tragedy. Rescuers, risking their own safety, scouring narrow tunnels saturated with methane
and carbon monoxide, hoping against hope they might find a survivor. Friends keeping porch
lights on in a nightly vigil; hanging up homemade signs that read, "Pray for our miners, and
their families." Neighbors consoling each other, and supporting each other and leaning on one
another.
I’ve seen it, the strength of that community. In the days that followed the disaster, emails
and letters poured into the White House. Postmarked from different places across the country,
they often began the same way: "I am proud to be from a family of miners." "I am the son of
a coal miner." "I am proud to be a coal miner’s daughter." They were always proud, and they
asked me to keep our miners in my thoughts, in my prayers. Never forget, they say, miners
keep America’s lights on. And then in these letters, they make a simple plea: Don’t let this
happen again. Don't let this happen again.
How can we fail them? How can a nation that relies on its miners not do everything in its
power to protect them? How can we let anyone in this country put their lives at risk by simply
showing up to work; by simply pursuing the American Dream?
We cannot bring back the 29 men we lost. They are with the Lord now. Our task, here on
Earth, is to save lives from being lost in another such tragedy; to do what must do,
individually and collectively, to assure safe conditions underground -- to treat our miners like
they treat each other -- like a family. Because we are all family and we are all Americans. And
we have to lean on one another, and look out for one another, and love one another, and pray
for one another.
There's a psalm that comes to mind today -- a psalm that comes to mind, a psalm we often
turn to in times of heartache:
Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for
You are with me; your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
God bless our miners.
God bless their families.
God bless West Virginia.
And God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329838" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Fathers_Day_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Fathers%20Day%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Father's Day Address
delivered 21 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello! Hello, everybody! Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Everybody,
please have a seat. Thank you very much. Thank you. Let me just begin by making a few
acknowledgements. First of all, I've got some outstanding fathers here in the first row who
aren’t seeing their kids enough because I'm working them all the time -- three members of
my Cabinet: Secretary of the Treasury Tim Geithner -- Attorney General Eric Holder -- and
Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke are here.
In addition, we've got one of my heroes and I'm sure one of yours, somebody whose
shoulders I stand on and allowed me to become President of the United States, and that's
Congressman from the great state of Georgia, John Lewis, is here. A fierce advocate on
behalf of the District of Columbia, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton is here.
I want to acknowledge the Mayor of Washington, D.C., Adrian Fenty in the house. The
executive director of ARC, Edmund Fleet, is here. I want to thank all the panel discussion
participants who are involved in today’s events, and I want to thank Nurney Mason -- a
Washington, D.C. icon. Nurney founded Mason’s Barbershop in 1961. That's the year I was
born. It’s still going strong. He is here with his children and his grandchildren. Where is he?
There he is right there. I could use a little trim.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
One year ago this week, we kicked off a national conversation on fatherhood and personal
responsibility, and members of our administration fanned out all across the country to hear
from fathers and families about the challenges that they face. Secretary Arne Duncan, our
Secretary of Education, held a discussion in New Hampshire about the link between
fatherhood and educational achievement. Gary Locke talked to fathers in California about
balancing the needs of their families with the demands of their jobs. Secretary Shinseki, of
Veterans Affairs, held a town hall for military and veteran dads in North Carolina. And
Attorney General Holder traveled to Georgia for a forum about fathers in our criminal justice
system.
And in each of these places, each of these leaders posed a simple question: How can we as a
nation -- not just the government, but businesses and community groups and concerned
citizens -- how can we all come together to help fathers meet their responsibilities to our
families and communities?
And we did this because we know the vital role fathers play in the lives of our children.
Fathers are our first teachers and coaches -- or in my house, assistant teachers and assistant
coaches -- to mom. But they’re our mentors, our role models. They show us by the example
they set the kind of people they want us to become.
But we also know that what too many fathers being absent means -- too many fathers
missing from too many homes, missing from too many lives. We know that when fathers
abandon their responsibilities, there’s harm done to those kids. We know that children who
grow up without a father are more likely to live in poverty. They're more likely to drop out of
school. They're more likely to wind up in prison. They’re more likely to abuse drugs and
alcohol. They’re more likely to run away from home. They’re more likely to become teenage
parents themselves.
And I say all this as someone who grew up without a father in my own life. He left my family
when I was two years old. And while I was lucky to have a wonderful mother and loving
grandparents who poured everything they had into me and my sister, I still felt the weight of
that absence. It’s something that leaves a hole in a child’s life that no government can fill.
So we can talk all we want here in Washington about issues like education and health care
and crime; we can build good schools; we can put money into creating good jobs; we can do
everything we can to keep our streets safe -- but government can’t keep our kids from looking
for trouble on those streets. Government can’t force a kid to pick up a book or make sure
that the homework gets done. Government can’t be there day in, day out, to provide
discipline and guidance and the love that it takes to raise a child. That’s our job as fathers, as
mothers, as guardians for our children.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
The fact is, it’s easy to become a father, technically -- any guy can do that. It’s hard to live
up to the lifelong responsibilities that come with fatherhood. And it’s a challenge even in good
times, when our families are doing well. It’s especially difficult when times are tough, families
are straining just to keep everything together.
In a time of war, many of our military families are stretched thin, with fathers doing multiple
tours of duty far away from their children. In difficult economic times, a lot of fathers are
worried about whether they’re going to be able to keep their job, or find a job, or whether
they’ll be able to pay the bills and give their children the kinds of opportunities that if they
didn’t have them themselves, at least they wished for their children. And there are a lot of
men who are out of work and wrestling with the shame and frustration that comes when you
feel like you can’t be the kind of provider you want to be for the people that you love.
But here’s the key message I think all of us want to send today to fathers all across the
country: Our children don’t need us to be superheroes. They don’t need us to be perfect.
They do need us to be present. They need us to show up and give it our best shot, no matter
what else is going on in our lives. They need us to show them -- not just with words, but with
deeds -- that they, those kids, are always our first priority.
Those family meals, afternoons in the park, bedtime stories; the encouragement we give, the
questions we answer, the limits we set, the example we set of persistence in the face of
difficulty and hardship -- those things add up over time, and they shape a child’s character,
build their core, teach them to trust in life and to enter into it with confidence and with hope
and with determination. And that’s something they’ll always carry with them: that love that
we show not with money, or fame, or spectacular feats, but through small daily acts -- the
love we show and that we earn by being present in the lives of our children.
Now, unfortunately, the way we talk about fatherhood in this country doesn’t always reinforce
these truths. When we talk about issues like child care and work-family balance, we call them
“women’s issues” and “mothers’ issues.” Too often when we talk about fatherhood and
personal responsibility, we talk about it in political terms, in terms of left and right,
conservative/liberal, instead of what’s right and what’s wrong. And when we do that, we’ve
gotten off track. So I think it’s time for a new conversation around fatherhood in this country.
We can all agree that we’ve got too many mothers out there forced to do everything all by
themselves. They’re doing a heroic job, often under trying circumstances. They deserve a lot
of credit for that. But they shouldn’t have to do it alone. The work of raising our children is
the most important job in this country, and it’s all of our responsibilities -- mothers and
fathers.
Now, I can’t legislate fatherhood -- I can’t force anybody to love a child. But what we can do
is send a clear message to our fathers that there is no excuse for failing to meet their
obligations.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
What we can do is make it easier for fathers who make responsible choices and harder for
those who avoid those choices. What we can do is come together and support fathers who
are willing to step up and be good partners and parents and providers.
And that’s why today we’re launching the next phase of our work to promote responsible
fatherhood -- a new, nationwide Fatherhood and Mentoring Initiative. This is a call to action
with cities and states, with individuals and organizations across the country -- from the NFL
Players Association to the National PTA, to everyday moms and dads -- we’re raising
awareness about responsible fatherhood and working to re-engage absent fathers with their
families.
As part of this effort, we’ve proposed a new and expanded Fatherhood, Marriage and Families
Innovation Fund. And we plan to seek out and support the very best, most successful
initiatives in our states and communities -- those that are offering services like job training, or
parenting skills classes, domestic violence prevention -- all which help provide the kind of
network of support for men, particularly those in vulnerable communities.
We’re also going to help dads who get caught up -- we want to make sure that they're caught
up on child support payments and that we re-engage them in their children’s lives. We’re
going to support efforts to build healthy relationships between parents as well -- because we
know that children benefit not just from loving mothers and loving fathers, but from strong
and loving marriages as well.
We’re also launching a new transitional jobs initiative for ex-offenders and low-income, noncustodial fathers -- because these are men who often face serious barriers to finding work and
keeping work. We’ll help them develop the skills and experience they need to move into fulltime, long-term employment, so they can meet their child support obligations and help
provide for their families.
And under Eric Holder’s direction, our Justice Department is planning to create its first
“Fathering Re-Entry Court” for ex-offender dads -- and to help replicate this program in courts
across the country. The idea here is very simple: to reach fathers right as they’re leaving the
criminal justice system and connect them immediately to the employment and services they
need to start making their child support payments and reconnecting them with their families.
This program was inspired by leaders like Peter Spokes, who was the executive director of the
National Center for Fathering -- a good friend to many in our administration, all of whom were
deeply saddened by his recent passing. And we are honored to have Peter’s wife, Barbara,
with us here today. Where’s Barbara? I just saw her earlier. There she is. Thank you.
So these initiatives are a good start. But ultimately, we know that the decision to be a good
father -- that’s up to us, each of us, as individuals.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
It’s one that men across this country are making every single day -- attending those school
assemblies; parent-teacher conferences; coaching soccer, Little League; scrimping and
saving, and working that extra shift so that their children can go to college. And plenty of
fathers -- and men who aren’t fathers as well -- are stepping up to serve as mentors and
tutors and big brothers and foster parents to young people who don’t have any responsible
adult in their lives.
Even when we give it our best efforts, there will still be plenty of days of struggle and
heartache when we don’t quite measure up -- talking to the men here now. Even with all the
good fortune and support Michelle and I have had in our lives, I’ve made plenty of mistakes as
a parent. I’ve lost count of all the times when the demands of work have taken me from the
duties of fatherhood. And I know I’ve missed out on moments in my daughters’ lives that I’ll
never get back, and that’s a loss that’s hard to accept.
But I also know the feeling that one author described when she wrote that “to have a child…is
to decide forever to have your heart go walking around outside your body.” Think about that
-- to have a child is to have your heart walking around outside your body.
I’m sure a lot of fathers here know that same memory that I have, of driving home with
Michelle and Malia right after she was born, going about 10 miles an hour. Your emotions
swinging between unadulterated joy and sheer terror. And I made a pledge that day that I
would do everything I could to give my daughter what I never had -- that if I could be
anything in life, I would be a good father.
And like a lot of the men here, since that time I’ve found there’s nothing else in my life that
compares to the pleasures I take in spending time with my girls. Nothing else comes close to
the pride I feel in their achievement and the satisfaction I get in watching them grow into
strong, confident young women.
Over the course of my life, I have been an attorney, I’ve been a professor, I’ve been a state
senator, I’ve been a U.S. senator -- and I currently am serving as President of the United
States. But I can say without hesitation that the most challenging, most fulfilling, most
important job I will have during my time on this Earth is to be Sasha and Malia’s dad.
So you don’t need a fancy degree for that. You don’t need a lot of money for that. No matter
what doubts we may feel, what difficulties we may face, we all have to remember being a
father -- it’s not just an obligation and a responsibility; it is a privilege and a blessing, one
that we all have to embrace as individuals and as a nation.
So, Happy Father’s Day, everybody. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329752" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Finance_Crisis_Fee.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Finance%20Crisis%20Fee.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech Proposing Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee
delivered 14 January 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you, everybody, for being here.
As we all know, our country has endured the deepest recession we've faced in
generations. And much of the turmoil was caused by irresponsibility on the part of banks and
financial institutions. Firms took reckless risks in pursuit of short-term profits and soaring
bonuses, triggering a financial crisis that nearly pulled the economy into a second Great
Depression.
It was little more than a year ago that we stood on that precipice. Several of the world's
largest financial institutions had already failed. Credit markets froze and banks refused to
lend. Trillions of dollars in household savings evaporated as stocks, pensions, and home
values plummeted. And we were losing hundreds of thousands of jobs each month. It was at
this time that many large financial firms -- those left standing -- teetered on the brink of
collapse, overwhelmed by the consequences of their irresponsible decisions.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, even though these firms were largely facing a crisis of their own making, their failure
could have led to an even greater calamity for the country. So the Federal Reserve and other
agencies took emergency measures to prevent that outcome. And the previous Administration
started a program -- the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP -- to provide these financial
institutions with funds to survive the turmoil that they had helped unleash. It was a distasteful
but necessary thing to do.
Now, we've worked over the last year to manage this program effectively, to hold firms
accountable, and to recoup as much tax money as possible. Many originally feared that most
of the 700 billion dollars in TARP money would be lost. But because of the management of this
program by Secretary Geithner and my economic team, we've now recovered the majority of
the funds provided to banks.
As far as I'm concerned, however, that's not good enough. My commitment is to the
taxpayer. My commitment is to recover every single dime the American people are owed. And
my determination to achieve this goal is only heightened when I see reports of massive profits
and obscene bonuses at some of the very firms who owe their continued existence to the
American people -- folks who have not been made whole, and who continue to face real
hardship in this recession.
We want our money back. And we're going to get it.
And that's why I'm proposing a "Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee" to be imposed on major
financial firms until the American people are fully compensated for the extraordinary
assistance they provided to Wall Street. If these companies are in good enough shape to
afford massive bonuses, they are surely in good enough shape to afford paying back every
penny to taxpayers.
Now, our estimate is that the TARP program will end up costing taxpayers around 117 billion
dollars -- obviously a lot less than the 700 billion that people had feared, but still a lot of
money. The fee will be in place for 10 years, or as long as it takes to raise the full amount
necessary to cover all taxpayer losses. This will not be a cost borne by community banks or
small financial firms. Only the largest firms with more than 50 billion dollars in assets will be
affected. And the size of the fee each bank owes will be based on its size and exposure to
debt, so that we are recovering tax dollars while promoting reform of the banking practices
that contributed to this crisis.
Now, the fact is these financial institutions are essential to our economy. They provide capital
and credit to families purchasing homes, students attending college, businesses seeking to
start up or expand. And that's why the rescue program was as necessary as it was
unfortunate. And that is why, through this fee and broader reforms that we seek, our goal is
not to punish Wall Street firms, but rather to prevent the abuse and excess that nearly caused
the collapse of many of these firms and the financial system itself.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We cannot go back to "business as usual." And when we see reports of firms once again
engaging in risky bets to reap quick rewards, when we see a return to compensation practices
that seem not to reflect what the country has been through, all that looks like business as
usual to me. The financial industry has even launched a massive lobbying campaign, locking
arms with the opposition Party, to stand in the way of reforms to prevent another crisis. That,
too, unfortunately, is business as usual. And we're already hearing a hue and cry from Wall
Street suggesting that this proposed fee is not only unwelcome but unfair -- that by some
twisted logic it is more appropriate for the American people to bear the costs of the bailout,
rather than the industry that benefited from it, even though these executives are out there
giving themselves huge bonuses.
What I'd say to these executives is this: Instead of sending a phalanx of lobbyists to fight this
proposal, or employing an army of lawyers and accountants to help evade the fee, I suggest
you might want to consider simply meeting your responsibilities. And I'd urge you to cover the
costs of the rescue not by sticking it to your shareholders or your customers or fellow citizens
with the bill, but by rolling back bonuses for top earners and executives. And more broadly, I
am continuing to call on these firms to put greater effort into helping families stay in their
homes, to provide small businesses with needed loans, and to embrace -- rather than fight -serious financial reform.
Ultimately, it is by taking responsibility -- on Wall Street, here in Washington, all the way to
Main Street -- that we're going to move past this period of turmoil. That's how we're going to
avoid the cycles of boom and bust that have caused so much havoc. That's how we're going to
promote vibrant markets that reward innovation and entrepreneurship and hard work. That's
how we're going to create sustained growth without the looming threat of another costly
crisis. That's not only in the best interests of the economy as a whole; it's actually in the
interest of these large banks.
So, I'm going to be working closely with Congress on this proposal.
And on behalf of the American people, I look forward to signing it into law.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329622" filename="Barack_Obama_-_First_Presidential_Prime_Time_Presser.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20First%20Presidential%20Prime%20Time%20Presser.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Presidential Prime Time Press Conference

delivered 9 February 2009, East Room, The White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Good evening, everybody. Please be seated.
Before I take your questions tonight, I'd like to speak briefly about the state of our economy and why I
believe we need to put this recovery plan in motion as soon as possible.
I took a trip to Elkhart, Indiana, today. Elkhart is a place that has lost jobs faster than anywhere else in
America.
In one year, the unemployment rate went from 4.7 percent to 15.3 percent. Companies that have sustained
this community for years are shedding jobs at an alarming speed, and the people who've lost them have no
idea what to do or who to turn to. They can't pay their bill and they've stopped spending money. And
because they've stopped spending money, more businesses have been forced to lay off more workers. In
fact, local TV stations have started running public service announcements that tell people where to find food
banks, even as the food banks don't have enough to meet the demand.
As we speak, similar scenes are playing out in cities and towns across America. Last Monday, more than a
thousand men and women stood in line for 35 firefighter jobs in Miami. Last month, our economy lost
598,000 jobs, which is nearly the equivalent of losing every single job in the state of Maine. And if there's
anyone out there who still doesn't believe this constitutes a full-blown crisis, I suggest speaking to one of the
millions of Americans whose lives have been turned upside down because they don't know where their next
paycheck is coming from.
And that is why the single most important part of this Economic Recovery and Reinvestment Plan is the fact
that it will save or create up to 4 million jobs, because that's what America needs most right now.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is absolutely true that we can't depend on government alone to create jobs or economic growth. That is
and must be the role of the private sector. But at this particular moment, with the private sector so
weakened by this recession, the federal government is the only entity left with the resources to jolt our
economy back into life. It is only government that can break the vicious cycle where lost jobs lead to people
spending less money, which leads to even more layoffs. And breaking that cycle is exactly what the plan
that's moving through Congress is designed to do.
When passed, this plan will ensure that Americans who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own can
receive greater unemployment benefits and continue their health care coverage. We will also provide a
$2,500 tax credit to folks who are struggling to pay the cost of their college tuition, and $1,000 worth of badly
needed tax relief to working and middle-class families. These steps will put more money in the pockets of
those Americans who are most likely to spend it, and that will help break the cycle and get our economy
moving.
But as we've learned very clearly and conclusively over the last eight years, tax cuts alone can't solve all of
our economic problems -- especially tax cuts that are targeted to the wealthiest few Americans.
We have tried that strategy, time and time again. And it's only helped lead us to the crisis we face right now.
And that's why we have come together, around a plan that combines hundreds of billions in tax cuts for the
middle class with direct investment in areas like health care, energy, education and infrastructure,
investments that will save jobs, create new jobs and new businesses and help our economy grow again,
now and in the future.
More than 90 percent of the jobs created by this plan will be in the private sector. They're not going to be
make-work jobs but jobs doing the work that America desperately needs done, jobs rebuilding our crumbling
roads and bridges, repairing our dangerously deficient dams and levees, so that we don't face another
Katrina.
They'll be jobs building the wind turbines and solar panels and fuel-efficient cars that will lower our
dependence on foreign oil and modernizing our costly health care system that will save us billions of dollars
and countless lives.
They'll be jobs creating the 21st-century classrooms, libraries and labs for millions of children across
America. And they'll be the jobs of firefighters and teachers and police officers that would otherwise be
eliminated, if we do not provide states with some relief.
Now after many weeks of debate and discussion, the plan that ultimately emerges from Congress must be
big enough and bold enough to meet the size of the economic challenges that we face right now. It's a plan
that is already supported by businesses representing almost every industry in America, by both the
Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO. It contains input, ideas and compromises from both Democrats
and Republicans. It also contains an unprecedented level of transparency and accountability, so that every
American will be able to go online and see where and how we're spending every dime.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
What it does not contain, however, is a single pet project, not a single earmark, and it has been stripped of
the projects members of both parties found most objectionable.
Now despite all of this, the plan's not perfect. No plan is. I can't tell you for sure that everything in this plan
will work exactly as we hope, but I can tell you with complete confidence that a failure to act will only deepen
this crisis, as well as the pain felt by millions of Americans.
My administration inherited a deficit of over $1 trillion, but because we also inherited the most profound
economic emergency since the Great Depression, doing little or nothing at all will result in ever -- even
greater deficits, even greater job loss, even greater loss of income and even greater loss of confidence.
Those are deficits that could turn a crisis into a catastrophe, and I refuse to let that happen. As long as I
hold this office, I will do whatever it takes to put this economy back on track and put this country back to
work.
I want to thank the members of Congress who've worked so hard to move this plan forward. But I also want
to urge all members of Congress to act without delay in the coming week to resolve their differences and
pass this plan.
We find ourselves in a rare moment where the citizens of our country and all countries are watching and
waiting for us to lead. It's a responsibility that this generation did not ask for, but one that we must accept for
the future of our children and our grandchildren.
The strongest democracies flourish from frequent and lively debate, but they endure when people of every
background and belief find a way to set aside smaller differences in service of a greater purpose. That's the
test facing the United States of America in this winter of our hardship, and it is our duty as leaders and
citizens to stay -- stay true to that purpose in the weeks and months ahead.
After a day of speaking with and listening to the fundamentally decent men and women who call this nation
home, I have full faith and confidence that we can do it.
But we're going to have to work together. That's what I intend to promote in the weeks and days ahead.
And with that, I'll take some of your questions. And let me go to Jennifer Loven at AP. There you are.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. Earlier today in Indiana you said something striking. You said that
this nation could end up in a crisis, without action, that we would be unable to reverse. Can you talk about
what you know or what you're hearing that would lead you to say that our recession might be permanent
when others in our history have not? And do you think that you risk losing some credibility or even talking
down the economy by using dire language like that?
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
MR. OBAMA: No, no, no, no. I think that what I've said is what other economists have said across the
political spectrum, which is that if you delay acting on an economy of this severity, then you potentially
create a negative spiral that becomes much more difficult for us to get out of.
We saw this happen in Japan in the 1990s, where they did not act boldly and swiftly enough, and as a
consequence they suffered what was called the "lost decade," where essentially for the entire '90s, they did
not see any significant economic growth.
So what I'm trying to underscore is what the people in Elkhart already understand, that this is not your
ordinary, run-of-the-mill recession.
We are going through the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
We've lost now 3.6 million jobs. But what's perhaps even more disturbing is that almost half of that job loss
has taken place over the last three months, which means that the problems are accelerating instead of
getting better.
Now, what I said in Elkhart today is what I'll repeat this evening, which is I'm absolutely confident that we
can solve this problem, but it's going to require us to take some significant, important steps.
Step number one, we have to pass an economic recovery and reinvestment plan. And we've made
progress. There was a vote this evening that moved the process forward in the Senate. We already have a
House bill that's passed. I'm hoping over the next several days that the House and the Senate can reconcile
their differences and get that bill on my desk.
There have been criticisms from a bunch of different directions about this bill. So let me just address a few
of them.
Some of the criticisms really are with the basic idea that government should intervene at all in this moment
of crisis. You have some people, very sincere, who philosophically just think the government has no
business interfering in the marketplace.
And in fact there are several who have suggested that FDR was wrong to intervene back in the New Deal.
They're fighting battles that I thought were resolved a pretty long time ago.
Most economists, almost unanimously, recognize that even if philosophically you're -- you're wary of
government intervening in the economy, when you have the kind of problem we have right now -- what
started on Wall Street goes to Main Street, suddenly businesses can't get credit, they start paring back their
investment, they start laying off workers, workers start pulling back in terms of spending -- that when you
have that situation, that government is an important element of introducing some additional demand into the
economy. We stand to lose about $1 trillion worth of demand this year and another trillion next year, and
what that means is you've got this gaping hole in the economy.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's why the -- the figure that we initially came up with, of approximately $800 billion, was put forward.
That wasn't just some random number that I plucked out of -- out of a hat. That was Republican and
Democratic, conservative and liberal economists that I spoke to, who indicated that given the magnitude of
the crisis and the fact that it's happening worldwide, it's important for us to have a bill of sufficient size and
scope that we can save or create 4 million jobs. That still means that you're going to have some net job loss,
but at least we can start slowing the trend and moving it in the right direction.
Now, the recovery and reinvestment package is not the only thing we have to do. It's one leg of the stool.
We are still going to have to make sure that we are attracting private capital, get the credit markets flowing
again, because that's the lifeblood of the economy. And so tomorrow my Treasury secretary, Tim Geithner,
will be announcing some very clear and specific plans for how we are going to start loosening up credit once
again.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
And that means having some transparency and oversight in the system.
It means that we correct some of the mistakes, with TARP, that were made earlier, the lack of consistency,
the lack of clarity, in terms of how the program was going to move forward.
It means that we condition taxpayer dollars that are being provided, to the banks, on them showing some
restraint when it comes to executive compensation, not using the money to charter corporate jets when
they're not necessary.
It means that we focus on housing and how are we going to help homeowners that are suffering foreclosure
or homeowners who are still making their mortgage payments but are seeing their property values decline.
So there's going to be a whole range of approaches that we have to take for dealing with the economy. My
bottom line is to make sure that we are saving or creating 4 million jobs, we are making sure that the
financial system is working again, that homeowners are getting some relief.
And I'm happy to get good ideas from across the political spectrum, from Democrats and Republicans.
What I won't do is return to the failed theories of the last eight years that got us into this fix in the first place,
because those theories have been tested and they have failed. And that's part of what the election in
November was all about. Okay?
Caren Bohan of Reuters.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to shift gears to foreign policy. What is your strategy for
engaging Iran, and when will you start to implement it? Will your time table be affected at all by the Iranian
elections? And are you getting any indications that Iran is interested in a dialogue with the United States?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
MR. OBAMA: I said during the campaign that Iran is a country that has extraordinary people, extraordinary
history and traditions, but that its actions over many years now have been unhelpful when it comes to
promoting peace and prosperity both in the region and around the world; that their attacks or -- or their -their financing of terrorist organizations like Hezbollah and Hamas, the bellicose language that they've used
towards Israel, their development of a nuclear weapon or their pursuit of a nuclear weapon -- that all of
those things create the possibility of destabilizing the region and are not only contrary to our interests, but I
think are contrary to the interests of international peace.
What I've also said is that we should take an approach with Iran that employs all of the resources at the
United States' disposal, and that includes diplomacy. And so my national security team is currently
reviewing our existing Iran policy, looking at areas where we can have constructive dialogue, where we can
directly engage with them. And my expectation is, in the coming months, we will be looking for openings that
can be created where we can start sitting across the table, face to face; of diplomatic overtures that will
allow us to move our policy in a new direction.
There's been a lot of mistrust built up over the years, so it's not going to happen overnight.
And it's important that even as we engage in this direct diplomacy, we are very clear about certain deep
concerns that we have as a country, that Iran understands that we find the funding of terrorist organizations
unacceptable, that we're clear about the fact that a nuclear Iran could set off a nuclear arms race in the
region that would be profoundly destabilizing. So there are going to be a set of objectives that we have in
these conversations, but I think that there's the possibility, at least, of a relationship of mutual respect and
progress.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
And I think that if you look at how we've approached the Middle East, my designation of George Mitchell as
a special envoy to help deal with the Arab-Israeli situation, some of the interviews that I've given, it indicates
the degree to which we want to do things differently in the region. Now it's time for Iran to send some signals
that it wants to act differently as well and recognize that even as it is has some rights as a member of the
international community, with those rights come responsibilities.
Okay.
MR. OBAMA: Chip Reid.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.
You have often said that bipartisanship is extraordinarily important overall and in this stimulus package. But
now when we ask your advisers about the lack of bipartisanship so far -- zero votes in the House, three in
the Senate -- they say, well, it's not the number of votes that matters; it's the number of jobs that will be
created.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Is that a sign that you are moving away, your White House is moving away, from this emphasis on
bipartisanship? And what went wrong? Did you underestimate how hard it would be to change the way
Washington worked?
MR. OBAMA: I don't think -- I don't think I underestimated it. I don't think the American people
underestimated it. They understand that there have been a lot of bad habits built up here in Washington.
And it's going to take time to break down some of those bad habits.
You know, when I made a series of overtures to the Republicans -- going over to meet with both Republican
caucuses, you know, putting three Republicans in my Cabinet, something that is unprecedented, making
sure that they were invited here to the White House, to talk about the economic recovery plan -- all those
were not designed simply to get some short-term votes. They were designed to try to build up some trust
over time.
And I think that, as I continue to make these overtures, over time, hopefully that will be reciprocated.
But understand the bottom line that I've got right now, which is what's happening to the people of Elkhart
and what's happening across the country. I can't afford to see Congress play the usual political games.
What we have to do right now is deliver for the American people. So my bottom line when it comes to the
recovery package is send me a bill that creates or saves 4 million jobs, because everybody has to be
possessed with a sense of urgency about putting people back to work, making sure that folks are staying in
their homes, that they can send their kids to college.
That doesn't negate the continuing efforts that I'm going to make to listen and engage with my Republican
colleagues. And hopefully the tone that I've taken, which has been consistently civil and respectful, will pay
some dividends over the long term.
There are going to be areas where we disagree and there are going to be areas where we agree.
As I said, the one concern I've got on the stimulus package, in terms of the debate and listening to some of
what's been said in Congress is that there seems to be a set of folks who -- I don't doubt their sincerity -who just believe that we should do nothing. Now, if that's their opening position or their closing position in
negotiations, then we're probably not going to make much progress, because I don't think that's
economically sound and I don't think what -- that's what the American people expect, is for us to stand by
and do nothing.
There are others who recognize that we've got to do a significant recovery package but they're concerned
about the mix of what's in there. And if they're sincere about it, then I'm happy to have conversations about
this tax cut versus that -- that tax cut or this infrastructure project versus that infrastructure project.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
But what I -- what I've been concerned about is some of the language that's been used suggesting that this
is full of pork and this is wasteful government spending, so on and so forth. First of all, when I hear that from
folks who presided over a doubling of the national debt, then, you know, I just want them to not engage in
some revisionist history. I inherited the deficit that we have right now and the economic crisis that we have
right now.
Number two is that, although there are some programs in there that I think are good policy, some of them
aren't job creators. I think it's perfectly legitimate to say that those programs should be out of this particular
recovery package, and we can deal with them later.
But when they start characterizing this as pork without acknowledging that there are no earmarks in this
package -- something, again, that was pretty rare over the last eight years -- then you get a feeling that
maybe we're playing politics instead of actually trying to solve problems for the American people.
So I'm going to keep on engaging. I hope that as we get the Senate and the House bills together, that
everybody is willing to give a little bit. I suspect that the package that emerges is not going to be a hundred
percent of what I want. But my bottom line is, are we creating 4 million jobs, and are we laying the
foundation for long- term economic growth?
This is another concern that I've had in some of the arguments that I'm hearing. When people suggest that
what a waste of money to make federal buildings more energy-efficient -- why would that be a waste of
money? We're creating jobs immediately by retrofitting these buildings or weatherizing 2 million Americans'
homes, as was called for in the package. So that right there creates economic stimulus, and we are saving
taxpayers, when it comes to federal buildings, potentially $2 billion. In the case of homeowners, they will see
more money in their pockets. And we're reducing our dependence on foreign oil in the Middle East. Why
wouldn't we want to make that kind of investment?
Now, maybe philosophically you just don't think that the federal government should be involved in energy
policy. I happen to disagree with that. I think that's the reason why we find ourselves importing more foreign
oil right now than we did back in the early '70s, when OPEC first formed. And we can have a respectful
debate about whether or not we should be involved in energy policymaking, but don't suggest that somehow
that's wasteful spending. That's exactly what this country needs.
The same applies when it comes to information technologies and health care. We know that health care is
crippling businesses and making us less competitive, as well as breaking the banks of families all across
America. And part of the reason is we've got the most inefficient health care system imaginable. We're still
using paper. We're -- we're still filing things in triplicate. Nurses can't read the prescriptions that doctors -that doctors have written out. Why wouldn't we want to put that on an -- put that on an electronic medical
record that will reduce error rates, reduce our long-term cost of health care, and create jobs right now?
Education, yet another example. The suggestion is, why should the federal government be involved in
school construction? Well, I visited a school down in South Carolina that was built in the 1850s. Kids are still
learning in that school -- as best they can. When the -- when the railroad -- when the -- it's right next to a
railroad, and when the train runs by the whole building shakes and the teacher has to stop teaching for a
while.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
The -- The auditorium is completely broken down and they can't use it. So why wouldn't we want to build
state-of-the-art schools with science labs that are teaching our kids the skills they need for the 21st century,
that will enhance our economy and, by the way, right now will create jobs?
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
So, you know, we can differ on some of the particulars, but again, the question I think that the American
people are asking is, do you just want government to do nothing, or do you want it to do something? If you
want it to do something, then we can have a conversation. But doing nothing -- that's not an option from my
perspective.
All right. Chuck Todd. Where's Chuck?
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. In your opening remarks, you talked about that if your plan works the
way you want it to work, it's going to increase consumer spending. But isn't consumer spending, or overspending, how we got into this mess? And if people get money back into their pockets, do you not want
them saving it or paying down debt first, before they start spending money into the economy?
MR. OBAMA: Well, first of all, I don't think it's accurate to say that consumer spending got us into this mess.
What got us into this mess initially were banks taking exorbitant, wild risks with other people's monies,
based on shaky assets. And because of the enormous leverage, where they had $1 worth of assets and
they were betting $30 on that $1, what we had was a crisis in the financial system.
That led to a contraction of credit, which in turn meant businesses couldn't make payroll or make
inventories, which meant that everybody became uncertain about the future of the economy.
So people started making decisions accordingly, reducing investments, initiating layoffs, which in turn made
things worse.
Now, you are making a legitimate point, Chuck, about the fact that our savings rate has declined. And this
economy has been driven by consumer spending for a very long time. And that's not going to be
sustainable. You know, if all we're doing is spending and we're not making things, then over time, other
countries are going to get tired of lending us money. And eventually the party's going to be over.
Well, in fact, the party now is over. And so the sequence of how we're approaching this is as follows. Our
immediate job is to stop the downward spiral. And that means putting money into consumers' pockets. It
means loosening up credit.
It means putting forward investments that not only employ people immediately but also lay the groundwork
for long-term economic growth. And that by the way is important, even if you're a fiscal conservative,
because the biggest problem we're going to have, with our federal budget, is if we continue a situation in
which there are no tax revenues, because economic growth is plummeting at the same time as we've got
more demands for unemployment insurance; we've got more demands for people who've lost their health

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
care, more demand for food stamps. That will put enormous strains on the federal budget as well as the
state budget.
So the most important thing we can do for our budget crisis right now is to make sure that the economy
doesn't continue to tank. And that's why passing the Economic Recovery Plan is the right thing to do, even
though I recognize that it's expensive.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
Look, I would love not to have to spend money right now. I'd -- you know, this notion that somehow I came
in here just ginned up to spend $800 billion, you know, that -- that wasn't -- that wasn't how I envisioned my
presidency beginning. But we have to adapt to existing circumstances.
Now, what we are going to also have to do is to make sure that as soon as the economy stabilizes,
investment begins again; we're no longer contracting, but we're growing; that our midterm and long-term
budget is dealt with. And I think the same is true for individual consumers. Right now, they're just -- they're
just trying to figure out how do I make sure that if I lose my job, you know, I'm still going to be able to make
my mortgage payments.
Or they're worried about, how am I going to pay next month's bills? So they're not engaging in a lot of longterm financial planning.
Once the economy stabilizes and people are less fearful, then I do think that we're going to have to start
thinking about how do we operate more prudently, because there's no such thing as a free lunch. So if -- if
you want to get -- if you want to buy a house, then putting zero down and buying a house that is probably
not affordable for you in case something goes wrong, that's something that has to be reconsidered.
So we're going to have to change our -- our bad habits. But right now, the key is making sure that we pull
ourselves out of the economic slump that we're in.
All right. Julianna Goldman, Bloomberg.
QUESTION Thank you, Mr. President.
Many experts, from Nouriel Roubini to Senator Schumer, have said that it will cost the government more
than a trillion dollars to really fix the financial system. During the campaign, you promised the American
people that you won't just tell them what they want to hear, but what they need to hear. Won't the
government need far more than the $350 billion that's remaining in the financial rescue fund to really solve
the credit crisis?
MR. OBAMA: Well, the credit crisis is real. And it's not over. I mean, we averted catastrophe by passing the
TARP legislation. But as I said before, because of a lack of clarity and consistency in how it was applied, a
lack of oversight in -- in -- in how the money went out, we didn't get as a big of a bang for the buck as we
should have.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
My immediate task is making sure that the second half of that money, $350 billion, is spent properly. That's
my first job. Before I even think about what else I've got to do, my first task is to make sure that my secretary
of the Treasury, Tim Geithner, working with Larry Summers, my national economic adviser, and others, are
coming up with the best possible plan to use this money wisely, in a way that's transparent, in a way that
provides clear oversight; that we are conditioning any money that we give to banks on them reducing
executive compensation to reasonable levels and to make sure that they're not wasting that money.
We are going to have to work with the banks in an effective way to clean up their balance sheets so that
some trust is restored within the marketplace, because right now part of the problem is that nobody really
knows what's on the banks' books. Any given bank, they're not sure what kinds of losses are there. We've
got to open things up and restore some trust.
We also have to deal with the housing issue in a clear and consistent way.
I don't want to preempt my secretary of the Treasury; he's going to be laying out these principles in great
detail tomorrow. But my instruction to him has been let's get this right, let's create a template in which we're
restoring market confidence. And the reason that's so important is because we don't know yet whether we're
going to need additional money or how much additional money we'll need until we've seen how successful
we are at restoring a sense of confidence in a marketplace that the federal government and the Federal
Reserve Bank and the FDIC, working in concert, know what they're doing.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
That can make a big difference, in terms of whether or not we attract private capital back into the
marketplace. And ultimately the government cannot substitute for all the private capital that has been
withdrawn from the system. We've got to restore confidence, so that private capital goes back in.
Okay.
Jake.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. My question follows Julianna's in content.
The American people have seen hundreds of billions of dollars spent already. And still the economy
continues to free-fall. Beyond avoiding the national catastrophe that you've warned about, once all the legs
of your stool are in place-MR. OBAMA: Right.
QUESTION: -- how can the American people gauge whether or not your programs are working?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Can they -- should they be looking at the metric of the stock market, home foreclosures, unemployment?
What metric should they use? When? And how will they know if it's working or whether or not we need to go
to a Plan B?
MR. OBAMA: I think my initial measure of success is creating or saving 4 million jobs. That's bottom line
number one, because if people are working, then they've got enough confidence to make purchases, to
make investments. Businesses start seeing that consumers are out there with a little more confidence. And
they start making investments, which means they start hiring workers.
So step number one, job creation.
Step number two, are we seeing the credit markets operate effectively? You know, I can't tell you how many
businesses that I talk to that are successful businesses but just can't get credit. Part of the problem in
Elkhart that I heard about today was the fact that this is the RV capital of America. You've got a bunch of RV
companies that have customers who want to purchase RVs, but even though their credit is good, they can't
get the loan.
Now, the businesses also can't get loans to make payments to their suppliers. But when they have
consumers, consumers can't get the loans that they need. So normalizing the credit markets is, I think, step
number two.
Step number three is going to be housing. Have we stabilized the housing market? Now, you know, the
federal government doesn't have complete control over that. But if our plan is effective, working with the
Federal Reserve Bank, working with the FDIC, I think what we can do is stem the rate of foreclosure and we
can start stabilizing housing values over time.
And the most -- the biggest measure of success is whether we stop contracting and shedding jobs, and we
start growing again. Now, you know, I don't have a crystal ball, and as I said, this is an unprecedented crisis.
But my hope is that after a difficult year -- and this year is going to be a difficult year -- that businesses start
investing again, they start making decisions that, you know, in fact, there's money to be made out there;
customers -- or consumers start feeling that their jobs are stable and safe, and they start making purchases
again. And if we get things right then, starting next year, we can start seeing some significant improvement.
Ed Henry. Where's Ed? CNN. There he is.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. You've promised to send more troops to Afghanistan. And since
you've been very clear about a time table to withdraw our combat troops from Iraq within 16 months, I
wonder what's your time table to withdraw troops eventually from Afghanistan?
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
And related to that, there's a Pentagon policy that bans media coverage of the flag-draped coffins from
coming into Dover Air Force Base. And back in 2004, then-Senator Joe Biden said that it was shameful for
dead soldiers to be, quote, snuck back into the country under the cover of night.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
You've promised unprecedented transparency, openness in your government. Will you overturn that policy,
so the American people can see the full human cost of war?
MR. OBAMA: Your question is timely. We got reports that four American service members have been killed
in Iraq today. And you know, obviously our thoughts and prayers go out to the families.
I've said before that, you know, people have asked me, "When did it hit you that you are now president?"
And what I told them was the most sobering moment is signing letters to the families of our fallen heroes. It
reminds you of the responsibilities that you carry in this office and the consequences of decisions that you
make.
Now with respect to the policy of opening up media to loved ones being brought back home, we are in the
process of reviewing those policies in conversations with the Department of Defense. So I don't want to give
you an answer now, before I've evaluated that review and understand all the implications involved.
With respect to Afghanistan, this is going to be a big challenge. I think, because of the extraordinary work
done by our troops and some very good diplomatic work done by Ambassador Crocker in Iraq, we just saw
an election in Iraq that went relatively peacefully, and you get a sense that the political system is now
functioning in a meaningful way.
You do not see that yet in Afghanistan. They've got elections coming up, but effectively the national
government seems very detached from what's going on in the surrounding community. In addition, you've
got the Taliban and al Qaeda operating in the FATA and these border regions between Afghanistan and
Pakistan. And what we haven't seen is the kind of concerted effort to root out those safe havens that would
ultimately make our mission successful.
So we are undergoing a thorough-going review. Not only is General Petraeus, now the head of CENTCOM,
conducting his own review, he's now working in concert with the special envoy that I've sent over -- Richard
Holbrooke, one of our top diplomats -- to evaluate a regional approach. We are going to need more effective
coordination of our military efforts with diplomatic efforts with development efforts with more effective
coordination with our allies in order for us to be successful.
The bottom line, though -- and I just want to remember the American people, because this is going to be
difficult -- is this is a situation in which a region served as the base to launch an attack that killed 3,000
Americans. And this past week I met with families of those who were lost in 9/11, a reminder of the costs of
allowing those safe havens to exist.
My bottom line is that we cannot allow al Qaeda to operate. We cannot have those safe havens in that
region. And we're going to have to work both smartly and effectively, but with consistency, in order to make
sure that those safe havens don't exist.
I do not have yet a timetable for how long that's going to take. What I know is I'm not going to make -- I'm
not going to allow al Qaeda or bin Laden to operate with impunity planning attacks on the U.S. homeland.
All right.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
Helene Cooper. Where is Helene? Here you go.
QUESTION: Thank you, sir.
I wanted to ask you, on the next bank bailout, are you going to impose a requirement that the financial
institutions use this money to loosen up credit and make new lending? And if not, how do you make the
case to the American people that this bailout will work when the last one didn't?
MR. OBAMA: Again, Helene, I -- I -- and I'm trying to avoid preempting my secretary of the Treasury; I want
all of you to show up at his press conference as well. (Laughter.) He's going to be terrific.
But this relates to Jake's earlier question. One of my bottom lines is whether or not credit is flowing to the
people who need it. Is it flowing to banks? Is -- excuse me; is it flowing to businesses, large and small? Is it
flowing to consumers? Are they able to operate in ways that translate into jobs and economic growth on
Main Street?
And the package that we've put together is designed to help do that. And beyond that, I'm going to make
sure that Tim gets his moment in the sun tomorrow, all right?
Major Garrett. Where is Major?
QUESTION: Mr. President, at a speech Friday that many of us covered, Vice President Biden said the
following thing about a conversation the two of you had in the Oval Office about a subject he didn't disclose.
"If we do everything right, if we do it with absolute certainty, if we stand up there and we really make the
tough decisions, there's still a 30 percent chance we're going to get it wrong."
Since the vice president brought it up, can you tell the American people, sir, what you were talking about?
And if not, can you at least reassure them it wasn't the stimulus bill or the bank rescue plan and if in general
you agree with that ratio of success, 30 percent failure, 70 percent success?
MR. OBAMA: (Laughs.) You know, I don't remember exactly what Joe was referring to, not surprisingly.
(Laughter.) But let me try this out.
I think what Joe may have been suggesting, although I wouldn't put numerical -- I would ascribe any
numerical percentage to any of this, is that given the magnitude of the challenges that we have, any single
thing that we do is going to be part of the solution, not all of the solution.
And as I said in my introductory remarks, not everything we do is going to work out exactly as we intended it
to work out. This is an unprecedented problem. And you know, when you talk to economists, there's some
general sense of how we're going to move forward.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
There's some strong consensus about the need for a recovery package of a certain magnitude. There's a
strong consensus that you shouldn't put all your eggs in one basket, all tax cuts or all investment, but that
there should be a range of approaches.
But even if we do everything right on that, we've still got to deal with what we just talked about, the financial
system and making sure that banks are lending again. We're still going to have to deal with housing. We're
still going to have to make sure that we've got a regulatory structure -- a regulatory architecture for the
financial system that prevents crises like this from occurring again. Those are all big, complicated tasks.
So I don't know whether Joe was referring to that, but I use that as a launching point to make a general
point about these issues.
MR. OBAMA: I have no idea. I really don't.
Michael Fletcher, The Washington Post.
QUESTION: Yeah, thank you, sir. What's you're reaction to Alex Rodriguez's admission that he used
steroids as a member of the Texas Rangers?
MR. OBAMA: Yeah, I think it's depressing news on top of what's been a flurry of depressing items, when it
comes to Major League Baseball.
And if you're a fan of Major League Baseball, I think it -- it tarnishes an entire era, to some degree. And it's
unfortunate, because I think there are a lot of ballplayers who played it straight.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
And you know, the thing I'm probably most concerned about the message that it sends to our kids.
What I'm pleased about is, Major League Baseball seems to finally be taking this seriously, to recognize
how big of a problem this is for the sport, and that our kids hopefully are watching and saying: You know
what? There are no shortcuts; that when you try to take shortcuts, you may end up tarnishing your entire
career, and that your integrity's not worth it. That's the message I hope is communicated.
All right. Helen. This is my inaugural moment here. (Laughter.) I'm really excited.
QUESTION: Mr. President, do you think that Pakistan and -- are maintaining the safe havens in Afghanistan
for these so-called terrorists? And also, do you know of any country in the Middle East that has nuclear
weapons?
MR. OBAMA: Well, I think that Pakistan -- there is no doubt that in the FATA region of Pakistan, in the
mountainous regions along the border of Afghanistan, that there are safe havens where terrorists are
operating.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
And one of the goals of Ambassador Holbrooke as he is traveling throughout the region is to deliver a
message to Pakistan that they are endangered as much as we are by the continuation of those operations,
and that we've got to work in a regional fashion to root out those safe havens.
They're -- it's not acceptable for Pakistan or for us to have folks who, with impunity, will kill innocent men,
women and children.
And you know, I -- I believe that the new government of Pakistan and -- and Mr. Zardari cares deeply about
getting control of this situation, and we want to be effective partners with them on that issue.
QUESTION: Did you get any promise from them?
MR. OBAMA: Well, Mr. Holbrooke is there, and that's exactly why he's being sent there, because I think that
we have to make sure that Pakistan is a stalwart ally with us in battling this terrorist threat.
With respect to nuclear weapons, you know, I don't want to speculate. What I know is this: that if we see a
nuclear arms race in a region as volatile as the Middle East, everybody will be in danger.
And one of my goals is to prevent nuclear proliferation generally.
I think that it's important for the United States, in concert with Russia, to lead the way on this. And you know,
I've mentioned this in conversations with the Russian president, Mr. Medvedev, to let him know that it is
important for us to restart the conversation, about how we can start reducing our nuclear arsenals in an
effective way, so that -MR. OBAMA: -- so that we then have the standing to go to other countries and start stitching back together
the non- proliferation treaties that frankly have been weakened over the last several years.
Okay.
All right.
Sam Stein, Huffington Post. Where's Sam?
QUESTION: Right here.
MR. OBAMA: There. Go ahead.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President.
Today, Senator Patrick Leahy announced that he wants to set up a truth and reconciliation committee to
investigate the misdeeds of the Bush administration.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
He said that before you turn the page, you have to read -- read the page first. Do you agree with such a
proposal? And are you willing to rule out right here and now any prosecution of Bush administration
officials?
MR. OBAMA: I haven't seen the proposal, so I don't want to express an opinion on something that I haven't
seen.
What I have said is that my administration is going to operate in a way that leaves no doubt that we do not
torture, that we abide by the Geneva Conventions, and that we observe our traditions of rule of law and due
process as we are vigorously going after terrorists that can do us harm. And I don't think those are
contradictory; I think they are potentially complementary.
My view is also that nobody's above the law, and if there are clear instances of wrongdoing, that people
should be prosecuted just like any ordinary citizen. But that generally speaking, I'm more interested in
looking forward than I am in looking backwards. I want to pull everybody together, including, by the way, the
-- all the members of the intelligence community who have done things the right way and have been working
hard to protect America, and I think sometimes are painted with a broad brush, without adequate
information.
The latest on President Obama, the new administration and other news from Washington and around the
nation.
So I will take a look at Senator Leahy's proposal, but my general orientation is to say let's get it right moving
forward.
Mara Liasson.
QUESTION: Thank you, Mr. President. If it's this hard to get more than a handful of Republican votes on
what is relatively easy -- spending tons of money and cutting people's taxes -- when you look down the road
at health care and entitlement reform and energy reform, those are really tough choices. You're going to be
asking some people to get less, and some people to pay more.
What do you think you're going to have to do to get more bipartisanship? Are you going to need a new
legislative model, bringing in Republicans from the very beginning, getting more involved in the details
yourself from the beginning, or using bipartisan commissions? What has this experience with the stimulus
led you to think about when you think about these future challenges?
MR. OBAMA: Well, as I said before, Mara, I think that old habits are hard to break. And we're coming off of
an election and I think people want to sort of test the limits of what they can get. You know, there's a lot of
jockeying in this town and a lot of who's up and who's down and positioning for the next election. And what
I've tried to suggest is that this is one of those times where we've got to put that kind of behavior aside,
because the American people can't afford it. The people in Elkhart can't afford it. The single mom who's
trying to figure out how to keep her house can't afford it.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 17

AmericanRhetoric.com
And whether we're Democrats or Republicans, surely there's got to be some capacity for us to work together
-- not agree on everything, but at least set aside small differences to get things done.
Now, just in terms of the historic record here, the Republicans were brought in early and were consulted.
And you'll remember that when we initially introduced our framework, they were pleasantly surprised and
complimentary about the tax cuts that were presented in that framework. Those tax cuts are still in there.
I mean, I suppose what I could have done is started off with no tax cuts, knowing that I was going to want
some, and then let them take credit for all of them. And maybe that's the lesson I learned. But there was
consultation. There will continue to be consultation.
One thing that I think is important is to recognize that because all these -- all these items that you listed are
hard, that people have to break out of some of the ideological rigidity and gridlock that we've been carrying
around for too long. And let me give you a prime example.
When it comes to how we approach the issue of fiscal responsibility, again, it's a little hard for me to take
criticism from folks, about this recovery package, after they presided over a doubling of the national debt.
I'm not sure they have a lot of credibility when it comes to fiscal responsibility.
Having said that, I think there are a lot of Republicans who are sincere in recognizing that unless we deal
with entitlements in a serious way, the problems we have, with this year's deficit and next year's deficit, pale
in comparison to what we're going to be seeing 10 or 15 years or 20 years down the road.
Both Democrats and Republicans are going to have to think differently in order to come together and solve
that problem.
I think there are areas like education, where some in my party have been too resistant to reform, and have
argued only money makes a difference. And there have been others on the Republican side or the
conservative side who said, no matter how much money you spend, nothing makes a difference, so let's just
blow up the public school systems. And -- and I think that both sides are going to have to acknowledge
we're going to need more money for new science labs, to pay teachers more effectively. But we're also
going to need more reform, which means that we've got to train teachers more effectively; bad teachers
need to be fired after being given the opportunity to train effectively; that we should experiment with things
like charter schools that are innovating in the classroom; that we should have high standards.
So my whole goal over the next four years is to make sure that whatever arguments are persuasive and
backed up by evidence and facts and proof, that they can work, that we are pulling people together around
that kind of pragmatic agenda. And I think that there was an opportunity to do this with this recovery
package because, as I said, although there are some politicians who are arguing that we don't need a
stimulus, there are very few economists who are making that argument. I mean, you've got economists who
were advising John McCain, economists who were advisers to George Bush -- one and two -- all suggesting
that we actually needed a serious recovery package.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 18

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so when I hear people just saying we don't need to do anything; this is a spending bill, not a stimulus
bill, without acknowledging that by definition part of any stimulus package would include spending -- that's
the point -- then what I get a sense of is that there is some ideological blockage there that needs to be
cleared up.
But I am the eternal optimist. I think that over time people respond to -- to civility and rational argument. I
think that's what the people of Elkhart and people around America are looking for, and that's what I'm -that's the kind of leadership I'm going to try to provide.
All right?
STAFF: Thank you.
QUESTION: One more, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Thank you, guys.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 19
</doc>
<doc id="file32329615" filename="Barack_Obama_-_First_Presidential_Weekly_Address.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20First%20Presidential%20Weekly%20Address.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Presidential Weekly Address

Delivered 24 January 2009

We begin this year and this Administration in the midst of an unprecedented crisis that calls
for unprecedented action. Just this week, we saw more people file for unemployment than at
any time in the last twenty-six years, and experts agree that if nothing is done, the
unemployment rate could reach double digits. Our economy could fall $1 trillion short of its
full capacity, which translates into more than $12,000 in lost income for a family of four. And
we could lose a generation of potential, as more young Americans are forced to forgo college
dreams or the chance to train for the jobs of the future.
In short, if we do not act boldly and swiftly, a bad situation could become dramatically worse.
That is why I have proposed an American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan to immediately
jumpstart job creation as well as long-term economic growth. I am pleased to say that both
parties in Congress are already hard at work on this plan, and I hope to sign it into law in less
than a month.
It’s a plan that will save or create three to four million jobs over the next few years, and one
that recognizes both the paradox and the promise of this moment -- the fact that there are
millions of Americans trying to find work even as, all around the country, there’s so much
work to be done. That’s why this is not just a short-term program to boost employment. It’s
one that will invest in our most important priorities like energy and education; health care and
a new infrastructure that are necessary to keep us strong and competitive in the 21st century.
Today I’d like to talk specifically about the progress we expect to make in each of these areas.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
To accelerate the creation of a clean energy economy, we will double our capacity to generate
alternative sources of energy like wind, solar, and biofuels over the next three years. We’ll
begin to build a new electricity grid that lay down more than 3,000 miles of transmission lines
to convey this new energy from coast to coast. We’ll save taxpayers $2 billion a year by
making 75% of federal buildings more energy efficient, and save the average working family
$350 on their energy bills by weatherizing 2.5 million homes.
To lower health care cost, cut medical errors, and improve care, we’ll computerize the nation’s
health record in five years, saving billions of dollars in health care costs and countless lives.
And we’ll protect health insurance for more than 8 million Americans who are in danger of
losing their coverage during this economic downturn.
To ensure our children can compete and succeed in this new economy, we’ll renovate and
modernize 10,000 schools, building state-of-the-art classrooms, libraries, and labs to improve
learning for over five million students. We’ll invest more in Pell Grants to make college
affordable for seven million more students, provide a $2,500 college tax credit to four million
students, and triple the number of fellowships in science to help spur the next generation of
innovation.
Finally, we will rebuild and retrofit America to meet the demands of the 21st century. That
means repairing and modernizing thousands of miles of America’s roadways and providing
new mass transit options for millions of Americans. It means protecting America by securing
90 major ports and creating a better communications network for local law enforcement and
public safety officials in the event of an emergency. And it means expanding broadband
access to millions of Americans, so business can compete on a level-playing field, wherever
they’re located.
I know that some are skeptical about the size and scale of this recovery plan. I understand
that skepticism, which is why this recovery plan must and will include unprecedented
measures that will allow the American people to hold my Administration accountable for these
results. We won’t just throw money at our problems -- we’ll invest in what works. Instead of
politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy, decisions about where we invest will be
made public, and informed by independent experts whenever possible. We’ll launch an
unprecedented effort to root out waste, inefficiency, and unnecessary spending in our
government, and every American will be able to see how and where we spend taxpayer
dollars by going to a new website called recovery.gov.
No one policy or program will solve the challenges we face right now, nor will this crisis recede
in a short period of time. But if we act now and act boldly; if we start rewarding hard work
and responsibility once more; if we act as citizens and not partisans and begin again the work
of remaking America, then I have faith that we will emerge from this trying time even
stronger and more prosperous than we were before.
Thanks for listening.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329577" filename="Barack_Obama_-_First_Press_Conference.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20First%20Press%20Conference.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Opening Remarks During First Press Conference as President­Elect

Delivered 7 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

This morning we woke up to more sobering news about the state of our economy. The
240,000 jobs lost in October marks the 10th consecutive month that our economy has shed
jobs. In total, we've lost nearly 1.2 million jobs this year, and more than 10 million Americans
are now unemployed. Tens of millions of families are struggling to figure out how to pay the
bills and stay in their homes. Their stories are an urgent reminder that we are facing the
greatest economic challenge of our lifetime, and we're going to have to act swiftly to resolve
it.
Now, the United States has only one government and one President at a time, and until
January 20th of next year, that government is the current Administration. I've spoken to
President Bush. I appreciate his commitment to ensuring that his economic policy team keeps
us fully informed as developments unfold. And I'm also thankful for his invitation to the White
House.
Immediately after I become President, I'm going to confront this economic crisis head­on by
taking all necessary steps to ease the credit crisis, help hardworking families, and restore
growth and prosperity. This morning I met with members of my Transition Economic Advisory
Board, who are standing behind me, alongside my Vice President­elect, Joe Biden. They will
help to guide the work of my transition team, working with Rahm Emanuel, my Chief of Staff,
in developing a strong set of policies to respond to this crisis.
We discussed in the earlier meeting several of the most immediate challenges facing our
economy and key priorities on which to focus on in the days and weeks ahead.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
First of all, we need a rescue plan for the middle class that invests in immediate efforts to
create jobs and provide relief to families that are watching their paychecks shrink and their
life savings disappear. A particularly urgent priority is a further extension of ­­ of
unemployment insurance benefits for workers who cannot find work in the increasingly weak
economy. A fiscal stimulus plan that will jump­start economic growth is long overdue. I've
talked about it throughout this ­­ the last few months of the campaign. We should get it done.
Second, we have to address the spreading impact of the financial crisis on the other sectors of
our economy ­­ small businesses that are struggling to meet their payrolls and finance their
holiday inventories, and state and municipal governments facing devastating budget cuts and
tax increases. We must also remember that the financial crisis is increasingly global and
requires a global response.
The news coming out of the auto industry this week reminds us of the hardship it faces ­­
hardship that goes far beyond individual auto companies to the countless suppliers, small
businesses, and communities throughout our nation who depend on a vibrant American auto
industry. The auto industry is the backbone of American manufacturing and a critical part of
our attempt to reduce our dependence on foreign oil.
I would like to see the Administration do everything it can to accelerate the retooling
assistance that Congress has already enacted. In addition, I have made it a high priority for
my transition team to work on additional policy options to help the auto industry adjust,
weather the financial crisis, and succeed in producing fuel­efficient cars here in the United
States of America. And I was glad to be joined today by Governor Jennifer Granholm, who
obviously has great knowledge and great interest on this issue. I've asked my team to explore
what we can do under current law and whether additional legislation will be needed for this
purpose.
Third, we will review the implementation of this Administration's financial program to ensure
that the government's efforts are achieving their central goal of stabilizing financial markets
while protecting taxpayers, helping homeowners, and not unduly rewarding the management
of financial firms that are receiving government assistance. It is absolutely critical that the
Treasury work closely with the FDIC, HUD, and other government agencies to use the
substantial authority that they already have to help families avoid foreclosure and stay in their
homes.
Finally, as we monitor and address these immediate economic challenges, we will be moving
forward in laying out a set of policies that will grow our middle class and strengthen our
economy in the long term. We cannot afford to wait on moving forward on the key priorities
that I identified during the campaign, including clean energy, health care, education, and tax
relief for middle­class families. My transition team will be working on each of these priorities in
the weeks ahead, and I intend to reconvene this advisory board to discuss the best ideas for
responding to these immediate problems.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Let me close by saying this: I do not underestimate the enormity of the task that lies ahead.
We have taken some major action to date, and we will need further action during this
transition and subsequent months. Some of the choices that we make are going to be difficult.
And I have said before and I will repeat again: It is not going to be quick and it is not going to
be easy for us to dig ourselves out of the hole that we are in, but America is a strong and
resilient country. And I know we will succeed if we put aside partisanship and politics and
work together as one nation. That's what I intend to do.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329741" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Flight_253_Terrorist_Attempt_Press_Statement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Flight%20253%20Terrorist%20Attempt%20Press%20Statement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Press Statement on NW Airlines Flight 253 Attempted Terrorist Attack
delivered 28 December 2009, Kailua, Hawaii

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning, everybody. I wanted to take just a few minutes to update the American people
on the attempted terrorist attack that occurred on Christmas Day and the steps we're taking
to ensure the safety and security of the country.
The investigation's ongoing. And I spoke again this morning with Attorney General Eric Holder,
the secretary of homeland security, Janet Napolitano, and my counterterrorism and homeland
security adviser, John Brennan. I asked them to keep -- continue monitoring the situation to
keep the American people and members of Congress informed.
Now, here's what we know so far: On Christmas Day, Northwest Airlines Flight 253 was en
route from Amsterdam, Netherlands, to Detroit. As the plane made its final approach to
Detroit Metropolitan Airport, a passenger allegedly tried to ignite an explosive device on his
body, setting off a fire. Thanks to the quick and heroic actions of passengers and crew, the
suspect was immediately subdued, the fire was put out, and the plane landed safely. The
suspect is now in custody and has been charged with attempting to destroy an aircraft. And a
full investigation has been launched into this attempted act of terrorism, and we will not rest
until we find all who were involved and hold them accountable.
Now, this was a serious reminder of the dangers that we face and the nature of those who
threaten our homeland. Had the suspect succeeded in bringing down that plane, it could have
killed nearly 300 passengers and crew, innocent civilians preparing to celebrate the holidays
with their families and friends. The American people should be assured that we are doing
everything in our power to keep you and your family safe and secure during this busy holiday
season.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Since I was first notified of this incident, I've ordered the following actions to be taken to
protect the American people and to secure air travel.
First, I directed that we take immediate steps to ensure the safety of the traveling public. We
made sure that all flights still in the air were secure and could land safely. We immediately
enhanced screening and security procedures for all flights, domestic and international. We
added federal air marshals to flights entering and leaving the United States. And we're
working closely in this country, federal, state and local law enforcement, with our international
partners.
Second, I've ordered two important reviews, because it's absolutely critical that we learn from
this incident and take the necessary measures to prevent future acts of terrorism.
The first review involves our watch list system, which our government has had in place for
many years to identify known and suspected terrorists so that we can prevent their entry into
the United States. Apparently the suspect in the Christmas incident was in this system, but
not on a watch list, such as the so-called no-fly list. So I have ordered a thorough review, not
only of how information related to the subject was handled, but of the overall watch list
system and how it can be strengthened.
The second review will examine all screening policies, technologies, and procedures related to
air travel. We need to determine just how the suspect was able to bring dangerous explosives
aboard an aircraft and what additional steps we can take to thwart future attacks.
Third, I've directed my national security team to keep up the pressure on those who would
attack our country. We do not yet have all the answers about this latest attempt, but those
who would slaughter innocent men, women, and children must know that the United States
will more -- do more than simply strengthen our defenses. We will continue to use every
element of our national power to disrupt, to dismantle, and defeat the violent extremists who
threaten us, whether they are from Afghanistan or Pakistan, Yemen or Somalia, or anywhere
where they are plotting attacks against the U.S. homeland.
Finally, the American people should remain vigilant, but also be confident. Those plotting
against us seek not only to undermine our security, but also the open society and the values
that we cherish as Americans. This incident, like several that have preceded it, demonstrates
that an alert and courageous citizenry are far more resilient than an isolated extremist.
As a nation, we will do everything in our power to protect our country. As Americans, we will
never give in to fear or division. We will be guided by our hopes, our unity, and our deeply
held values.
That's who we are as Americans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's what our brave men and women in uniform are standing up for as they spend the
holidays in harm's way.
And we will continue to do everything that we can to keep America safe in the new year and
beyond.
Before I leave, let me also briefly address the events that have taken place over the last few
days in the Islamic Republic of Iran. The United States joins with the international community
in strongly condemning the violent and unjust suppression of innocent Iranian citizens, which
has apparently resulted in detentions, injuries, and even death.
For months, the Iranian people have sought nothing more than to exercise their universal
rights. Each time they have done so, they have been met with the iron fist of brutality, even
on solemn occasions and holy days. And each time that has happened, the world has watched
with deep admiration for the courage and the conviction of the Iranian people who are part of
Iran's great and enduring civilization.
What's taking place within Iran is not about the United States or any other country. It's about
the Iranian people and their aspirations for justice and a better life for themselves. And the
decision of Iran's leaders to govern through fear and tyranny will not succeed in making those
aspirations go away.
As I said in Oslo, it's telling when governments fear the aspirations [of] their own people more
than the power of any other nation.
Along with all free nations, the United States stands with those who seek their universal
rights. We call upon the Iranian government to abide by the international obligations that it
has to respect the rights of its own people.
We call for the immediate release of all who have been unjustly detained within Iran.
We will continue to bear witness to the extraordinary events that are taking place there. And
I'm confident that history will be on the side of those who seek justice.
Thank you very much, everybody. And happy New Year.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329927" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Fort_Campbell.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Fort%20Campbell.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech to Troops at Fort Campbell

Delivered 6 May 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, Fort Campbell! 101st Airborne Division -- Air Assault, hello!
General Colt, thank you for that great introduction -- it was great because it was brief. More
importantly, thank you for the extraordinary leadership that you’ve shown here at one of the
largest Army bases in America.
And let me just say, I make a lot of decisions; one of the earliest and best decisions I made
was choosing one of the finest Vice Presidents in our history -- Joe Biden, right here.
Chaplain Miller, thank you for the beautiful invocation.
I want to thank General Colt for welcoming me here today, along with your great Command
Sergeant Major, Wayne St. Louis. The Quartet and 101st Division Band. All these troopers
behind me -- you look great. You noticed they kind of hesitated.
We got a lot of folks in the house. We’ve got military police and medical personnel. We’ve got
the Green Berets of the 5th Special Forces Group. I think we’ve got a few Air Force here. Oh - Well, we thought we did. There they go -- okay. Come on. And, of course, the legendary
Screaming Eagles. And although they’re not in the audience, I want to acknowledge the 160th
Special Operations Aviation Regiment -- the Night Stalkers -- for their extraordinary service.
Now, I’ve got to say, some of you are starting to look a little familiar -- because last
December, when we were at Bagram, I was out there to thank you for your service, especially
during the holidays. And we had a great rally, a big crowd -- it seemed like everybody was
there from the 101st.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And since then, I know we’ve had quite a few homecomings. The Rakkasans. Destiny. Strike.
Bastogne. And some of the Division Headquarters -- the Gladiators. On behalf of a grateful
nation -- welcome home.
Of course, our thoughts and prayers are with General Campbell, Command Sergeant Major
Schroeder, and all of the Screaming Eagles and troops that are still risking their lives in
theater. And I’m so pleased that Ann Campbell and Marla Schroeder, and some of the
inspiring military spouses are here. Where are they at? Right over there. We are grateful to
you. God bless you. There they are. Thank you so much. This happens to be Military Spouse
Appreciation Day. And we honor your service as well.
Now, I didn’t come here to make a really long speech. I know you're hearing that. It’s like,
yeah, it’s hot! What I really wanted to do was come down and shake some hands. I came here
for a simple reason -- to say thank you on behalf of America. This has been an historic week
in the life of our nation. Thanks to the incredible skill and courage of countless individuals -intelligence, military -- over many years, the terrorist leader who struck our nation on 9/11
will never threaten America again.
Yesterday, I traveled to New York City, and, along with some of our 9/11 families, laid a
wreath at Ground Zero in memory of their loved ones. I met with the first responders -- the
firefighters, the police officers, the Port Authority officers -- who lost so many of their own
when they rushed into those burning towers. I promised that our nation will never forget
those we lost that dark September day.
And today, here at Fort Campbell, I had the privilege of meeting the extraordinary Special Ops
folks who honored that promise. It was a chance for me to say -- on behalf of all Americans
and people around the world -- “Job well done.” Job well done.
They’re America’s “quiet professionals” -- because success demands secrecy. But I will say
this. Like all of you, they could have chosen a life of ease. But like you, they volunteered.
They chose to serve in a time of war, knowing they could be sent into harm’s way. They
trained for years. They’re battle-hardened. They practiced tirelessly for this mission. And
when I gave the order, they were ready.
Now, in recent days, the whole world has learned just how ready they were. These Americans
deserve credit for one of the greatest intelligence military operations in our nation’s history.
But so does every person who wears America’s uniform, the finest military the world has ever
known. And that includes all of you men and women of 101st.
You have been on the frontlines of this fight for nearly 10 years. You were there in those early
days, driving the Taliban from power, pushing al Qaeda out of its safe havens. Over time, as
the insurgency grew, you went back for, in some cases, a second time, a third time, a fourth
time.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
When the decision was made to go into Iraq, you were there, too, making the longest air
assault in history, defeating a vicious insurgency, ultimately giving Iraqis the chance to secure
their democracy. And you’ve been at the forefront of our new strategy in Afghanistan.
Sending you -- more of you -- into harm’s way is the toughest decision that I’ve made as
Commander-in-Chief. I don’t make it lightly. Every time I visit Walter Reed, every time I visit
Bethesda, I’m reminded of the wages of war. But I made that decision because I know that
this mission was vital to the security of the nation that we all love.
And I know it hasn’t been easy for you and it hasn’t, certainly, been easy for your families.
Since 9/11, no base has deployed more often, and few bases have sacrificed more than you.
We see it in our heroic wounded warriors, fighting every day to recover, and who deserve the
absolute best care in the world. We see it in the mental and emotional toll that’s been taken -in some cases, some good people, good soldiers who’ve taken their own lives. So we’re going
to keep saying to anybody who is hurting out there, don’t give up. You’re not alone. Your
country needs you. We’re here for you to keep you strong.
And most of all, we see the price of this war in the 125 soldiers from Fort Campbell who’ve
made the ultimate sacrifice during this deployment to Afghanistan. And every memorial
ceremony -- every “Eagle Remembrance” -- is a solemn reminder of the heavy burdens of
war, but also the values of loyalty and duty and honor that have defined your lives.
So here’s what each of you must know. Because of your service, because of your sacrifices,
we’re making progress in Afghanistan. In some of the toughest parts of the country, General
Campbell and the 101st are taking insurgents and their leaders off the battlefield and helping
Afghans reclaim their communities.
Across Afghanistan, we’ve broken the Taliban’s momentum. In key regions, we’ve seized the
momentum, pushing them out of their strongholds. We’re building the capacity of Afghans,
partnering with communities and police and security forces, which are growing stronger.
And most of all, we’re making progress in our major goal, our central goal in Pakistan and
Afghanistan, and that is disrupting and dismantling -- and we are going to ultimately defeat al
Qaeda. We have cut off their head and we will ultimately defeat them.
Even before this week’s operation, we’ve put al Qaeda’s leadership under more pressure than
at any time since 9/11, on both sides of the border. So the bottom line is this: Our strategy is
working, and there’s no greater evidence of that than justice finally being delivered to Osama
bin Laden.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But I don’t want to fool you. This continues to be a very tough fight. You know that. But
because of this progress, we’re moving into a new phase. In the coming months, we’ll start
transferring responsibility for security to Afghan forces. Starting this summer, we’ll begin
reducing American forces. As we transition, we’ll build a long-term partnership with the
Afghan people, so that al Qaeda can never again threaten America from that country.
And, as your Commander-in-Chief, I’m confident that we’re going to succeed in this mission.
The reason I’m confident is because in you I see the strength of America’s military -- and
because in recent days we’ve all seen the resilience of the American spirit.
Now, this week I received a letter from a girl in New Jersey named Payton Wall. She wrote to
me on Monday after the news that bin Laden had been killed, and she explained how she still
remembers that September morning almost 10 years ago. She was only four years old. Her
father, Glen, was trapped inside the World Trade Center. And so, in those final, frantic
moments, knowing he might not make it, he called home. And Payton remembers watching
her mom sobbing as she spoke to her husband and then passed the phone to Payton. And in
words that were hard to hear but which she’s never forgotten, he said to her, “I love you
Payton, and I will always be watching over you.”
So yesterday, Payton, her mom, and her sister, Avery, joined me at Ground Zero. And now
Payton is 14. These past 10 years have been tough for her. In her letter, she said, “Ever since
my father died, I lost a part of me that can never be replaced.” And she describes her
childhood as a “little girl struggling to shine through all the darkness in her life.”
But every year, more and more, Payton is shining through. She’s playing a lot of sports,
including lacrosse and track, just like her dad. She’s doing well in school. She’s mentoring
younger students. She’s looking ahead to high school in the fall. And so, yesterday she was
with us -- a strong, confident young woman -- honoring her father’s memory, even as she set
her sights on the future.
And for her and for all of us, this week has been a reminder of what we’re about as a people.
It’s easy to forget sometimes, especially in times of hardship, times of uncertainty. We’re
coming out of the worst recession since the Great Depression; haven’t fully recovered from
that. We’ve made enormous sacrifices in two wars. But the essence of America -- the values
that have defined us for more than 200 years -- they don’t just endure; they are stronger
than ever.
We’re still the America that does the hard things, that does the great things. We’re the nation
that always dared to dream. We’re the nation that’s willing to take risks -- revolutionaries
breaking free from an empire; pioneers heading West to settle new frontiers; innovators
building railways and laying the highways and putting a man on the surface of the moon.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We are the nation -- and you’re the Division -- that parachuted behind enemy lines on D-Day,
freeing a continent, liberating concentration camps. We’re the nation that, all those years ago,
sent your Division to a high school in Arkansas so that nine black students could get an
education. That was you. Because we believed that all men are created equal; that everyone
deserves a chance to realize their God-given potential.
We’re the nation that has faced tough times before -- tougher times than these. But when our
Union frayed, when the Depression came, when our harbor was bombed, when our country
was attacked on that September day, when disaster strikes like that tornado that just ripped
through this region, we do not falter. We don’t turn back. We pick ourselves up and we get on
with the hard task of keeping our country strong and safe.
See, there’s nothing we can’t do together, 101st, when we remember who we are, at that is
the United States of America. When we remember that, no problem is too hard and no
challenge is too great.
And that is why I am so confident that, with your brave service, America’s greatest days are
still to come.
God bless you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329721" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Fort_Hoot_Memorial.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Fort%20Hoot%20Memorial.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Memorial Address At Fort Hood

Delivered 10 November 2009, Fort Hood, TX

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

To the Fort Hood community; to Admiral Mullen; General Casey; General Cone; Secretary
McHugh; Secretary Gates; most importantly, to family, friends, and members of our Armed
Forces: We come together filled with sorrow for the 13 Americans that we have lost, with
gratitude for the lives that they led, and with a determination to honor them through the work
we carry on.
This is a time of war. Yet these Americans did not die on a foreign field of battle. They were
killed here, on American soil, in the heart of this great state and the heart of this great
American community. This is the fact that makes the tragedy even more painful, even more
incomprehensible.
For those families who have lost a loved one, no words can fill the void that's been left. We
knew these men and women as soldiers and caregivers. You knew them as mothers and
fathers, sons and daughters, sisters and brothers.
But here is what you must also know: Your loved ones endure through the life of our nation.
Their memory will be honored in the places they lived and by the people they touched. Their
life's work is our security, and the freedom that we all too often take for granted. Every
evening that the sun sets on a tranquil town; every dawn that a flag is unfurled; every
moment that an American enjoys life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness -- that is their
legacy.
Neither this country, nor the values upon which we were founded, could exist without men
and women like these 13 Americans. And that is why we must pay tribute to their stories.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Chief Warrant Officer Michael Cahill had served in the National Guard and worked as a
physician's assistant for decades. A husband and father of three, he was so committed to his
patients that on the day he died he was back at work just weeks after having had a heart
attack.
Major Libardo Eduardo Caraveo spoke little English when he came to America as a
teenager. But he put himself through college, earned a Ph.D., and was helping combat units
cope with the stress of deployment. He's survived by his wife, sons, and step-daughters.
Staff Sergeant Justin DeCrow joined the Army right after high school, married his high school
sweetheart, and had served as a light wheeled mechanic and satellite communications
operator. He was known as an optimist, a mentor, and a loving husband and loving father.
After retiring from the Army as a major, John Gaffaney cared for society's most vulnerable
during two decades as a psychiatric nurse. He spent three years trying to return to active duty
in this time of war, and he was preparing to deploy to Iraq as a captain. He leaves behind a
wife and son.
Specialist Frederick Greene was a Tennessean who wanted to join the Army for a long time,
and did so in 2008, with the support of his family. As a combat engineer he was a natural
leader, and he is survived by his wife and two daughters.
Specialist Jason Hunt was also recently married, with three children to care for. He joined the
Army after high school. He did a tour in Iraq, and it was there that he reenlisted for six more
years on his 21st birthday so that he could continue to serve.
Staff Sergeant Amy Krueger was an athlete in high school, joined the Army shortly after 9/11,
and had since returned home to speak to students about her experience. When her mother
told her she couldn't take on Osama bin Laden by herself, Amy replied: "Watch me."
Private First Class Aaron Nemelka was an Eagle Scout who just recently signed up to do one of
the most dangerous jobs in the service -- diffuse bombs -- so that he could help save lives. He
was proudly carrying on a tradition of military service that runs deep within his family.
Private First Class Michael Pearson loved his family and loved his music, and his goal was to
be a music teacher. He excelled at playing the guitar, and could create songs on the spot and
show others how to play. He joined the military a year ago, and was preparing for his first
deployment.
Captain Russell Seager worked as a nurse for the VA, helping veterans with Post-Traumatic
Stress. He had extraordinary respect for the military, and signed up to serve so that he could
help soldiers cope with the stress of combat and return to civilian life. He leaves behind a wife
and son.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Private Francheska Velez, daughter of a father from Colombia and a Puerto Rican mother, had
recently served in Korea and in Iraq, and was pursuing a career in the Army. When she was
killed she was pregnant with her first child, and was excited about becoming a mother.
Lieutenant Colonel Juanita Warman was the daughter and granddaughter of Army
veterans. She was a single mom who put herself through college and graduate school, and
served as a nurse practitioner while raising her two daughters. She also left behind a loving
husband.
Private First Class Kham Xiong came to America from Thailand as a small child. He was a
husband and father who followed his brother into the military because his family had a strong
history of service. He was preparing for his first deployment to Afghanistan.
These men and women came from all parts of the country. Some had long careers in the
military. Some had signed up to serve in the shadow of 9/11. Some had known intense
combat in Iraq and Afghanistan, and some cared for those did. Their lives speak to the
strength, the dignity, the decency of those who serve, and that's how they will be
remembered.
For that same spirit is embodied in the community here at Fort Hood, and in the many
wounded who are still recovering. As was already mentioned, in those terrible minutes during
the attack, soldiers made makeshift tourniquets out of their clothes. They braved gunfire to
reach the wounded, and ferried them back to safety in the backs of cars and a pickup truck.
One young soldier, Amber Bahr, was so intent on helping others, she did not realize for some
time that she, herself, had been shot in the back. Two police officers -- Mark Todd and Kim
Munley -- saved countless lives by risking their own. One medic -- Francisco de la Serna -treated both Officer Munley and the gunman who shot her.
It may be hard to comprehend the twisted logic that led to this tragedy. But this much we do
know: No faith justifies these murderous and craven acts. No just and loving God looks upon
them with favor. For what he has done, we know that the killer will be met with justice -- in
this world, and the next.
These are trying times for our country. In Afghanistan and Pakistan, the same extremists who
killed nearly 3,000 Americans continue to endanger America, our allies, and innocent Afghans
and Pakistanis.
In Iraq, we're working to bring a war to a successful end, as there are still those who would
deny the Iraqi people the future that Americans and Iraqis have sacrificed so much for.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
As we face these challenges, the stories of those at Fort Hood reaffirm the core values that we
are fighting for, and the strength that we must draw upon. Theirs are the tales of American
men and women answering an extraordinary call -- the call to serve their comrades, their
communities, and their country. In an age of self -- selfishness, they embody responsibility. In
an era of division, they call upon us to come together. In a time of cynicism, they remind us
of who we are as Americans.
We are a nation that endures because of the courage of those who defend it. We saw that
valor in those who braved bullets here at Fort Hood, just as surely as we see it in those who
signed up knowing they would serve in harm’s way.
We are a nation of laws whose commitment to justice is so enduring that we would treat a
gunman and give him due process, just as surely as we will see that he pays for his crimes.
We're a nation that guarantees the freedom to worship as one chooses. And instead of
claiming God for our side, we remember Lincoln’s words, and always pray to be on the side of
God.
We're a nation that is dedicated to the proposition that all men and women are created equal.
We live that truth within our military, and see it in the varied backgrounds of those we lay to
rest today. We defend that truth at home and abroad, and we know that Americans will
always be found on the side of liberty and equality. That's who we are as a people.
Tomorrow is Veterans Day. It's a chance to pause, and to pay tribute -- for students to learn
the struggles that preceded them; for families to honor the service of parents and
grandparents; for citizens to reflect upon the sacrifices that have been made in pursuit of a
more perfect union.
For history is filled with heroes. You may remember the stories of a grandfather who marched
across Europe; an uncle who fought in Vietnam; a sister who served in the Gulf. But as we
honor the many generations who have served, all of us -- every single American -- must
acknowledge that this generation has more than proved itself the equal of those who've come
before. We need not look to the past for greatness, because it is before our very eyes.
This generation of soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, and Coast Guardsmen have volunteered
in the time of certain danger. They are part of the finest fighting force that the world has ever
known. They have served tour after tour of duty in distant, different, and difficult places. They
have stood watch in blinding deserts and on snowy mountains.
They have extended the opportunity of self-government to peoples that have suffered tyranny
and war. They are men and women -- white, black, and brown -- of all faiths and all stations - all Americans, serving together to protect our people, while giving others half a world away
the chance to lead a better life.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
In today’s wars, there's not always a simple ceremony that signals our troops’ success -- no
surrender papers to be signed, or capital to be claimed. But the measure of the impact of
these young men and women is no less great. In a world of threats that no know borders,
their legacy will be marked in the safety of our cities and towns, and the security and
opportunity that's extended abroad. It will serve as testimony to the character of those who
served, and the example that all of you in uniform set for America and for the world.
Here at Fort Hood, we pay tribute to 13 men and women who were not able to escape the
horror of war, even in the comfort of home. Later today at Fort Lewis, one community will
gather to remember so many in one Stryker Brigade who have fallen in Afghanistan.
Long after they are laid to rest -- when the fighting has finished, and our nation has endured;
when today’s servicemen and women are veterans and their children have grown -- it will be
said that this generation believed under the most trying of tests; believed in perseverance -not just when it was easy, but when it was hard; that they paid the price and bore the burden
to secure this nation, and stood up for the values that live in the hearts of all free peoples.
So we say goodbye to those who now belong to eternity.
We press ahead in pursuit of the peace that guided their service.
May God bless the memory of those that we have lost.
And may God bless the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329636" filename="Barack_Obama_-_G20_Remarks_and_Presser_2009.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20G20%20Remarks%20and%20Presser%202009.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Post G20 Economic Summit Remarks and Press Conference

Delivered 2 April 2009, Excel Center, London, England

Good afternoon, or good evening -- we're running a little bit late.
Earlier today, we finished a very productive summit that will be, I believe, a turning point in our pursuit of
global economic recovery.
By any measure, the London summit was historic. It was historic because of the size and the scope of the
challenges that we face, and because of the timeliness and magnitude of our response.
The challenge is clear. The global economy is contracting. Trade is shrinking. Unemployment is rising.
The international finance system is nearly frozen. Even these facts can't fully capture the crisis that we're
confronting, because behind them is the pain and uncertainty that so many people are facing. We see it
back in the United States. We see it here in London. We see it around the world: families losing their
homes, workers losing their jobs and their savings, students who are deferring their dreams. So many have
lost so much. Just to underscore this point, back in the United States, jobless claims released today were
the highest in 26 years. We owe it to all of our citizens to act, and to act with a sense of urgency.
In an age where our economies are linked more closely than ever before, the whole world has been touched
by this devastating downturn. And today, the world's leaders have responded with an unprecedented set of
comprehensive and coordinated actions.
Now, just keep in mind some historical context. Faced with similar global challenges in the past, the world
was slow to act, and people paid an enormous price. That was true in the Great Depression, when nations
prolonged and worsened the crisis by turning inward, waiting for more than a decade to meet the challenge
together. Even as recently as the 1980s, the slow global response deepened and widened a debt crisis in
Latin America that pushed millions into poverty.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Today, we've learned the lessons of history. I know that in the days leading up to the summit, some of you
in the press, some commentators, confused honest and open debate with irreconcilable differences. But
after weeks of preparation, and two days of careful negotiation, we have agreed on a series of
unprecedented steps to restore growth and prevent a crisis like this from happening again.
Let me outline what I think has been most significant.
Number one, we are committed to growth and job creation. All G20 nations have acted to stimulate
demand, which will total well over $2 trillion in global fiscal expansion. The United States is also partnering
with the private sector to clean out the troubled assets, the legacy assets that are crippling some banks, and
using the full force of the government to ensure that our action leads directly to loans to businesses large
and small, as well as individuals who depend on credit. And these efforts will be amplified by our G20
partners, who are pursuing similarly comprehensive programs.
And we also agreed on bold action to support developing countries, so that we aren't faced with declining
markets that the global economy depends on. Together, the G20 is tripling the IMF's lending capacity and
promoting lending by multilateral development banks to increase the purchasing power and expand markets
in every country.
We've also rejected the protectionism that could deepen this crisis. History tells us that turning inward can
help turn a downturn into a depression. And this cooperation between the world's leading economies
signals our support for open markets, as does our multilateral commitment to trade finance that will grow our
exports and create new jobs.
That's all on the growth front.
And next we made enormous strides in committing ourselves to comprehensive reform of a failed regulatory
system. And together, I believe that we must put an end to the bubble-and-bust economy that has stood in
the way of sustained growth and enabled abusive risk-taking that endangers our prosperity.
At home, back in the States, our efforts began with the approach that Secretary Geithner proposed last
week, the strongest regulatory reforms any nation has contemplated so far to prevent the massive failure of
responsibility that we have already seen. Today, these principles have informed and enabled the
coordinated action that we will take with our G20 partners.
To prevent future crises, we agreed to increased transparency and capital protections for financial
institutions. We're extending supervision to all systemically important institutions, markets and products,
including hedge funds. We'll identify jurisdictions that fail to cooperate, including tax havens, and take
action to defend our financial system. We will reestablish the Financial Stability Forum with a stronger
mandate. And we will reform and expand the IMF and World Bank so they are more efficient, effective and
representative.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Finally, we are protecting those who don't always have a voice at the G20, but who have suffered greatly in
this crisis. And the United States is ready to lead in this endeavor. In the coming days, I intend to work with
Congress to provide $448 million in immediate assistance to vulnerable populations -- from Africa to Latin
America -- and to double support for food safety to over $1 billion so that we are giving people the tools they
need to lift themselves out of poverty. We will also support the United Nations and World Bank as they
coordinate the rapid assistance necessary to prevent humanitarian catastrophe.
I have to say, though, that this is not just charity. These are all future markets for all countries, and future
drivers of world economic growth.
Let me also underscore my appreciation to Prime Minister Brown, his entire team, and all my colleagues
from around the world who contributed to the summit's success. You know, it's hard for 20 heads of state to
bridge their differences. We've all got our own national policies; we all have our own assumptions, our own
political cultures. But our citizens are all hurting. They all need us to come together. So I'm pleased that
the G20 has agreed to meet again this fall, because I believe that this is just the beginning. Our problems
are not going to be solved in one meeting; they're not going to be solved in two meetings. We're going to
have to be proactive in shaping events and persistent in monitoring our progress to determine whether
further action is needed.
I also want to just make a few remarks about additional meetings I had outside of the G20 context. While
here in London I had the opportunity to hold bilateral meetings with leaders of Russia, China, South Korea,
Saudi Arabia and India, as well as Great Britain. And these discussions were extraordinarily valuable and
productive. Of course, we spoke about additional steps to promote economic recovery and growth. But we
also discussed coordinated actions on a range of issues: how we could reduce the nuclear threat; how we
could forge a coordinated response to North Korea's planned missile launch; how we can turn back
terrorism and stabilize Afghanistan; how we can protect our planet from the scourge of climate change. I'm
encouraged that we laid the groundwork for real and lasting progress on a host of these issues.
Ultimately, the challenges of the 21st century can't be met without collective action. Agreement will almost
never be easy, and results won't always come quickly. But I am committed to respecting different points of
view, and to forging a consensus instead of dictating our terms. That's how we made progress in the last
few days. And that's how we will advance and uphold our ideals in the months and years to come.
You know, at home, I've often spoken about a new era of responsibility. And I believe strongly that this era
must not end at our borders. In a world that's more and more interconnected, we all have responsibilities to
work together to solve common challenges. And although it will take time, I am confident that we will rebuild
global prosperity if we act with a common sense of purpose, persistence, and the optimism that the moment
demands.
So I appreciate your attention, and I'm going to take a few questions. I've got a list of a few people I'm going
to call on and then I will intersperse some folks I'm calling on randomly.
Helene Cooper.
Q

Mr. President, -- [inaudible]

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, I think we did okay. You know, when I came here, it was with the intention of
listening and learning, but also providing American leadership. And I think that the document that has been
produced as well as the concrete actions that will follow reflect a range of our priorities.
We wanted to make sure that we had a strong, coordinated response to growth -- and that's reflected in the
document and in the actions that will be taken. We thought it was important to make sure that we had a
strong, coordinated regulatory response -- and many of the details of the regulatory response draw from
principles that we had developed prior to coming here.
We felt that it was very important to strengthen our international financial institutions because developing
countries, emerging markets are threatened -- even though they may not have been the cause of this crisis - they are threatened by capital flight; they're threatened by reduced trade finance; drops in consumer
demand in developed countries that were their export markets, and so we knew that it was going to be
important to provide those countries with assistance. And we have created as fundamental a reworking of
the resources available to these international financial institutions as anything we've done in the last several
decades.
So, overall, I'm pleased with the product. And I'll leave it to others to determine whether me and my team
had anything to do with that. All right?
Chuck Todd. Chuck.
Q What concrete items that you got out of this G20 can you tell the American people back home who are
hurting, the family struggling, seeing their retirement go down, or worrying about losing their job -- what
happened here today that helps that family back home in the heartland?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, as I said before, we've got a global economy, and if we're taking actions in
isolation in the United States, but those actions are contradicted overseas, then we're only going to be
halfway effective -- maybe not even half.
You've seen, for example, a drastic decline in U.S. exports over the last several months. You look at a
company like Caterpillar, in my home state of Illinois, which up until last year was doing extraordinarily well;
in fact, export growth was what had sustained it even after the recession had begun. As a consequence of
the world recession, as a consequence of the contagion from the financial markets debilitating the
economies elsewhere, Caterpillar is now in very bad shape. So if we want to get Caterpillar back on its feet,
if we want to get all those export companies back on their feet, so that they are hiring, putting people back to
work, putting money in people's pockets, we've got to make sure that the global economy as a whole is
successful.
And this document, which affirms the need for all countries to take fiscal responses that increase demand,
that encourages the openness of markets, those are all going to be helpful in us being able to fix what ails
the economy back home.
Let me mix in a -- Justin Webb, BBC. Where's Justin? There he is. Go ahead.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Q

Mr. President, in the spirit of openness, with which you say you're --

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Why don't you get a microphone? See, everybody is complaining. I'm sure that's all
your fellow British journalists.
Q They're extraordinarily well behaved, Mr. President. In the spirit of openness, with which you say you're
going to run your administration, could you give us an insight into an area or areas where you came to
London wanting something and you didn't get it; where you compromised, where you gave something away
to achieve the wider breakthrough agreement?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, I think that if you look at the language of the document, there are probably
some areas where it wasn't so much of a sacrifice as it might not have been our number-one priority, but it
became clear that it was very important to certain other actors.
I'd rather not specify what those precise items would be, because this is a collective document. But there's
no doubt that each country has its own quirks and own particular issues that a leader may decide is really,
really important; something that is non-negotiable for them. And what we tried to do as much as possible
was to accommodate those issues in a way that didn't -- did not hamper the effectiveness of the overall
document to address what I think are the core issues related to this crisis.
Now, keep in mind -- I think that this kind of coordination really is historic. I said in the meeting that if you
had imagined 10 years ago, or 20 years ago, or 30 years ago, that you'd have the leaders of Germany,
France, China, Russia, Brazil, South Africa, a President of the United States named Obama -- former
adversaries, in some cases former mortal enemies, negotiating this swiftly on behalf of fixing the global
economy, you would have said, that's crazy. And yet it was happening, and it happened with relatively little
-- relatively few hiccups. And I think that's a testimony to the great work that Gordon Brown did, and his
team, in organizing the summit, the collective work in our teams in doing some good preparation, some
good ground work. So I'm very proud of what's been done.
This alone is not enough. And obviously the actions that each of us take in our individual countries are still
absolutely vital. So we have a set of principles, for example, around dealing with systemic risk that I think
will be very important in preventing the kinds of financial crises that we've seen.
That does not entirely solve the problem of toxic assets that are still in U.S. banks and certain British banks
and certain European banks. And how each individual nation acts to deal with that is still going to be vitally
important. How well we execute the respective stimulus programs around the world is going to be very
important. The quicker they are, the more effective they are at actually boosting demand, the more all of us
will benefit. The more encumbered they are by bureaucracy and mismanagement and corruption, that will
hamper our development efforts as a whole.
So this is not a panacea, but it is a critical step, and I think it lays the foundation so that, should the actions
that we've taken individually and collectively so far not succeed in boosting global demand and growth,
should you continue to see a freezing of credit or a hemorrhaging of jobs around the world, I think we've
created a good foundation for this leadership to come back together again and take additional steps until we
get it right.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Okay, Michael Shear. Where's Michael?
Q Thank you, Mr. President. I wonder if you view this trip that you're on and the actions that you've taken
here at the G20 and with the bilateral meetings that you've had as representing a break from the foreign
policy of your predecessor. And if so, could you describe where you see and how you see the principles that
guide a different view of the world?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, you know, I didn't accompany President Bush on his various summits, so I
don't know how he was operating. And I won't -- I won't warrant a guess on that.
I can tell you that what I've tried to do since I started running for President and since I was sworn in as
President, is to communicate the notion that America is a critical actor and leader on the world stage, and
that we shouldn't be embarrassed about that, but that we exercise our leadership best when we are
listening; when we recognize that the world is a complicated place and that we are going to have to act in
partnership with other countries; when we lead by example; when we show some element of humility and
recognize that we may not always have the best answer, but we can always encourage the best answer and
support the best answer.
So I think that's the -- that's the approach that we've tried to take in our foreign policy since my
administration came in. Now, we come in at extraordinarily challenging times, and yet I actually think that
that calls for this type of leadership even more. But, ultimately, we won't know how effective we are until we
look back a year from now, or two years from now, or three years from now and see if it worked.
And what the American people care about I suspect are the same thing that the British people care about,
and that is, are you putting people back to work? Are businesses growing again? Is business -- is credit
flowing again? And, you know -- and that's just true with respect to this summit. But when it comes to our
Afghanistan policy, the question is going to be, have we made ourselves safer; have we reduced the risks
and incidents of terrorism?
And so the proof of the pudding is in the eating. But hopefully, I think at least we've set a tone
internationally where people don't -- where they give us the benefit of the doubt. They're still going to have
their interests, and we're going to have ours. There are going to be tough negotiations, and sometimes
we're going to have to walk away from those negotiations if we can't arrive at a common accord. There are
going to be real dangers that can't always be talked through and have to be addressed. But at least we can
start with the notion that we're prepared to listen and to work cooperatively with countries around the world.
All right, let me sprinkle in another -- it's got to be an international person. All right, this young lady right
there.
Q Mr. President, Emma Alberici from the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. At the moment, in the
U.S., the U.K., and in Australia, executive salaries and bonuses are decided in the boardrooms of major
publicly listed companies. Who will be making those decisions on salaries and bonuses as a result of the
agreement you've made here today? And if it is still the boards, will they be guided by principles or
legislation?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
PRESIDENT OBAMA: The principles that we outlined I think put in place or move us in the direction of what
I consider to be best practices, which is that there is some accountability with respect to executive
compensation.
Now, theoretically, that should be the shareholders. But the way that too many corporations have operated
for too long is that you have a CEO who basically selects his board; the board, in a fairly cozy relationship
oftentimes with the executive, hires a executive compensation firm, which, surprisingly, tends to think that
it's necessary to retain the best talent to pay people $20 or $30 million a year; and we get into the kinds of
habits and practices that I think have not been -- have not served shareholders well, I think ultimately distort
the decision-making of many CEOs.
When I was in the United States Senate, I actually worked on a piece of legislation that would -- made the
simple proposition that executive compensation should be subject to a shareholder vote, even if it was
nonbinding, so that there was transparency and accountability and perhaps a shame function that would
take place. And that principle, I think, is reflected in these guidelines.
What it says is, is that if you get shareholders involved and those shareholders are given a set of principles
and best practices by which they can judge executive compensation, then you can still have outsized
rewards and success for successful business people, but it will be based on not short-term performance, not
three-month performance, not your ability to flip quick profits off products like derivatives that don't turn out
to be particularly productive to the company, but based on sustained, effective growth. And that's what's
embodied in these documents, and I think that you're going to see a lot of countries try to encourage that
kind of transparency and accountability.
It doesn't mean the state micromanaging -- [sneezes] -- excuse me -- I've been fighting this all week -- it
doesn't mean that we want the state dictating salaries; we don't. We -- I strongly believe in a free-market
system, and as I -- as I think people understand in America, at least, people don't resent the rich; they want
to be rich. And that's good. But we want to make sure that there's mechanisms in place that holds people
accountable and produces results. Okay?
Got to go back to my crew. Jake Tapper.
Q Thank you, Mr. President. Two questions. One, can you say with confidence that the steps the G20
nations are taking today -- committing to today will help the world, or will prevent the world to avoid a
depression or a deeper recession?
And two, your friend and ally, Prime Minister Brown, said that "The old Washington consensus is over; today
we have reached a new consensus." Is he right? And what do you think he meant by that?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: In life there are no guarantees; in economics there are no guarantees. The people
who thought they could provide guarantees, many of them worked at AIG and it didn't work out so well. So
there are always risks involved.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
I have no doubt, though, that the steps that have been taken are critical to preventing us sliding into a
depression. They are bolder and more rapid than any international response that we've seen to a financial
crisis in memory. And I think that they will have a concrete effect in our ability, individually, in each nation,
to create jobs, save jobs that exist, grow the economy, loosen up credit, restore trust and confidence in the
financial markets.
So these steps -- another way of putting it is I think the steps in the communiqué were necessary. Whether
they're sufficient, we've got to -- we've got to wait and see. I'm actually confident, though, that given the
common commitment in the United States and in the other G20 countries to act rapidly and boldly, that if we
see other inklings of panic in the marketplace, or things unwinding, that this group, once again, will respond
as needed.
So I guess maybe just to use an analogy that was used several times in this meeting, an analogy that I've
used in the past: You got a sick patient; I think we applied the right medicine; I think the patient is stabilized;
there's still wounds that have to heal and there's still emergencies that could arise, but I think that you've got
some pretty good care being applied.
You had a second, follow-up question?
Q

Prime Minister Brown saying --

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Oh, the Washington consensus. Well, the Washington consensus, as I'm sure
you're aware, Jake, is sort of a term of art about a certain set of policies surrounding globalization and the
application of a cookie-cutter model to economic growth, trade liberalization, deregulation that was popular
and did help globalize and grow the economy, and was led by some of our leading economists and
policymakers in Washington.
I think that there's always been a spectrum of opinion about how unfettered the free market is. And along
that spectrum, I think there have been some who believe in very fierce regulation and are very suspicious of
globalization, and there are others who think that it's always -- that the market is always king. And I think
what we've learned here, but if anybody had been studying history they would have understood earlier, is
that the market is the most effective mechanism for creating wealth and distributing resources to produce
goods and services that history has ever known, but that it goes off the rail sometimes; that if it's completely
unregulated, that if there are no thoughtful frameworks to channel the creative energy of the market, that it
can end up in a very bad place.
And so, in that sense, I think that we just went through a couple of decades where there was an artificial
complacency about the dangers of markets going off the rails. And a crisis like this reminds us that we just
have to put in some common-sense rules of the road, without throwing out the enormous benefits that
globalization have brought in terms of improving living standards, reducing the cost of goods, and bringing
the world closer together.
All right, I've got time for just a couple more questions. I'm going to find a journalist here -Q -- [inaudible]

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Q

How about me?

PRESIDENT OBAMA: All right, I'm going to call on this gentleman right here. He's been very persistent.
Q Excuse me. China Central Television. Since the world leaders have been talking about increasing the
voice and voting rights of developing countries, I would like to ask two questions instead of just one. First of
all, on behalf of China -PRESIDENT OBAMA: I may choose which one I want to answer.
Q

Of course.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: That's always the danger of asking two questions.
Q First of all, you've had a very fruitful meeting with our President. And during the Clinton administration,
U.S.-China relationship were characterized, in Clinton's words, "strategic, constructive partnership." During
the Bush era, it was -- the catchphrase was "stakeholder." The Bush administration expects China to
become a responsible stakeholder in international affairs. Have you come up with a catchphrase of your
own? And certainly it is not the G2, is it?
My second question is, on behalf of the world, politics is very local, even though we've been talking about
global solution, as indicated by your recent preference over American journalists and British -- which is
okay. How can you make sure that you will do whatever you can so that -- that local politics will not trump or
negatively affect good international economics? Thank you, Mr. President.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, those are excellent questions. On the first question, your American
counterparts will tell you I'm terrible with those little catchphrases and sound bites. So I haven't come up
with anything catchy yet, but if you have any suggestions, let me know. I'll be happy to use them.
In terms of local politics, look, I'm the President of the United States. I'm not the President of China, I'm not
the President of Japan, I'm not the President of the other participants here. And so I have a direct
responsibility to my constituents to make their lives better. That's why they put me in there. That accounts
for some of the questions here, about how concretely does me being here help them find a job, pay for their
home, send their kids to college, live what we call the American Dream. And I will be judged by my
effectiveness in meeting their needs and concerns.
But in an era of integration and interdependence, it is also my responsibility to lead America into recognizing
that its interests, its fate is tied up with the larger world; that if we neglect or abandon those who are
suffering in poverty, that not only are we depriving ourselves of potential opportunities for markets and
economic growth, but ultimately that despair may turn to violence that turns on us; that unless we are
concerned about the education of all children and not just our children, not only may we be depriving
ourselves of the next great scientist who's going to find the next new energy source that saves the planet,
but we also may make people around the world much more vulnerable to anti-American propaganda.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
So if I'm effective as America's President right now, part of that effectiveness involves holding a -- providing
Americans insight into how their self-interest is tied up with yours. And that's an ongoing project because
it's not always obvious.
And there are going to be times where short-term interests are going to differ; there's no doubt about it. And
protectionism is the classic example. You can make arguments that if you can get away with protecting
your markets, as long as the other folks don't protect theirs, then in the short term you may benefit. And it
then becomes important not only for me to try to give people a sense of why, over the long term, that's
counterproductive, but also it becomes important for me to put policies in place in the United States that
provide a cushion, provide support for those people who may suffer local dislocations because of
globalization. And that's something that I think every government has to think about.
There are individuals who will be harmed by a trade deal. There are businesses who will go out of business
because of free trade. And to the extent that a government is not there to help them reshape their company
or retrain for the new jobs that are being created, over time you're going to get people who see -- who rightly
see their personal self-interest in very narrow terms. Okay?
Two more questions. Jonathan Weisman.
Q Thank you, Mr. President. During the campaign you often spoke of a diminished power and authority of
the United States over the last decade. This is your first time in an international summit like this, and I'm
wondering what evidence you saw of what you spoke of during the campaign. And specifically, is the
declaration of the end of the Washington consensus evidence of the diminished authority that you feared
was out there?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, first of all, during the campaign I did not say that some of that loss of authority
was inevitable. I said it was traced to very specific decisions that the previous administration had made that
I believed had lowered our standing in the world. And that wasn't simply my opinion; that was, it turns out,
the opinion of many people around the world.
I would like to think that with my election and the early decisions that we've made, that you're starting to see
some restoration of America's standing in the world. And although, as you know, I always mistrust polls,
international polls seem to indicate that you're seeing people more hopeful about America's leadership.
Now, we remain the largest economy in the world by a pretty significant margin. We remain the most
powerful military on Earth. Our production of culture, our politics, our media still have -- I didn't mean to say
that with such scorn, guys -- you know I'm teasing -- still has enormous influence. And so I do not buy into
the notion that America can't lead in the world. I wouldn't be here if I didn't think that we had important
things to contribute.
I just think in a world that is as complex as it is, that it is very important for us to be able to forge
partnerships as opposed to simply dictating solutions. Just a -- just to try to crystallize the example, there's
been a lot of comparison here about Bretton Woods. "Oh, well, last time you saw the entire international
architecture being remade."

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Well, if there's just Roosevelt and Churchill sitting in a room with a brandy, that's a -- that's an easier
negotiation. But that's not the world we live in, and it shouldn't be the world that we live in.
And so that's not a loss for America; it's an appreciation that Europe is now rebuilt and a powerhouse.
Japan is rebuilt, is a powerhouse. China, India -- these are all countries on the move. And that's good.
That means there are millions of people -- billions of people -- who are working their way out of poverty.
And over time, that potentially makes this a much more peaceful world.
And that's the kind of leadership we need to show -- one that helps guide that process of orderly integration
without taking our eyes off the fact that it's only as good as the benefits of individual families, individual
children: Is it giving them more opportunity; is it giving them a better life? If we judge ourselves by those
standards, then I think America can continue to show leadership for a very long time.
I'm going to call one foreigner -- actually, I'm the foreigner. That's why I smiled. One correspondent not
from America. And then I will -- [vociferous commotion] -- we're not doing bidding here. But I also want to
make sure that I'm not showing gender bias. So this young lady right here -- not you, sir, I'm sorry.
Q

Hi, Mr. President.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: How are you?
Q

Thank you for choosing me. I'm very well. I'm from the Times of India.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Wonderful.
Q You met with our Prime Minister, Manmohan Singh. What did you -- what is America doing to help India
tackle terrorism emanating from Pakistan?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, first of all, your Prime Minister is a wonderful man.
Q

Thank you. I agree.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well -Q

I agree.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Did you have something to do with that, or -- You seem to kind of take -- take credit
for it a little bit there.
Q

Really proud of him, sir.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: Of course. You should be proud of him. I'm teasing you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
I think he's a very wise and decent man, and has done a wonderful job in guiding India, even prior to being
Prime Minister, along a path of extraordinary economic growth that is a marvel, I think, for all the world.
We did discuss the issue of terrorism. And we discussed it not simply in terms of terrorism emanating from
Pakistan, although obviously we are very concerned about extremists and terrorists who have made camp
in the border regions of Pakistan as well as in Afghanistan. But we spoke about it more broadly in terms of
how we can coordinate effectively on issues of counterterrorism.
We also spoke about the fact that in a nuclear age, at a time when perhaps the greatest enemy of both India
and Pakistan should be poverty, that it may make sense to create a more effective dialogue between India
and Pakistan. But obviously we didn't go in depth into those issues.
We talked about a whole range of other issues related to, for example, energy, and how important it is for
the United States to lead by example in reducing our carbon footprint so that we can help to forge
agreements with countries like China and India that, on a per-capita basis, have a much smaller footprint
and so justifiably chafe at the idea that they should have to sacrifice their development for our efforts to
control climate change; but also acknowledging that if China and India, with their populations, had the same
energy usage as the average American, then we would have all melted by now.
And so that was a very interesting conversation that I will be pursuing not just with India, but hopefully with
China and with other countries around the world. In some ways our European counterparts have moved
more quickly than we have on this issue. But I think even the Europeans have recognized that it's not easy.
It's even harder during times of economic downturn.
And so we're going to have to combine the low-hanging fruit of energy efficiency with rapid technological
advances. And to the extent that in some cases we can get international cooperation and pool our scientific
and technical knowledge around things like developing coal sequestration, for example, that can be
extremely helpful. Okay?
I'm going to call on my last American correspondent, Chip. And, Chip, my heart goes out to you.
Q

Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I appreciate that.

PRESIDENT OBAMA: I just heard about that.
Q Certainly there is a lot of sentiment in G20 countries that the United States was a major cause of the
global economic meltdown. To what degree did that topic come up in your discussions? Did it make it
difficult for some countries to accept advice from the United States when they blame the United States and
its economic system for causing this in the first place? And how do you respond to people who do blame
America?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, you know, I don't think that -- I think my colleagues in the G20 were
extraordinarily gracious about my participation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
I think that they continue to express the desire to work with America, admiration about many things
American. There were occasional comments, usually wedged into some other topic, that indicated from
their perspective that this started in America, or this started on Wall Street, or this started with particular
banks or companies.
Perhaps what helped was my willingness to acknowledge that -- and it's hard to deny -- that some of this
contagion did start on Wall Street. And as I've said back home, as I've said in public and as I would say in
private, we had a number of firms that took wild and unjustified risks, we had regulators that were asleep at
the switch, and it has taken an enormous toll on the U.S. economy and has spread to the world economy.
Now, I think that part of the reason people didn't give me too hard a time is because if you look at European
banks or Asian banks, that they've had their own issues both in the past and in the future. And I think there
was a very constructive discussion about the fact that, given global financial flows, that unless we've got
much more effective coordinated regulatory strategies, supervision, standards, that these problems will
appear again.
Money is -- can move around the globe in a second. And it will seek out the highest returns, and if those
highest returns end up being built on a house of cards, then we're going to be seeing another threat to the
world financial system wherever that house of cards might be.
And so, overall, I think there was an extraordinarily constructive approach among all the leaders. I was very
impressed with them. I'm very grateful to them. And I'm excited about the ability not just to help heal this
economy but also to make progress on a sustainable model of economic growth that relies less on a cycle
of bubble and bust -- something that I've spoken about back home.
All right? Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 13
</doc>
<doc id="file32329840" filename="Barack_Obama_-_General_McChrystal_Afghanistan.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20General%20McChrystal%20Afghanistan.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
On the Resignation of General McChrystal from Afghanistan Command
delivered 23 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon. Today I accepted General Stanley McChrystal's resignation as commander of
the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan. I did so with considerable regret,
but also with certainty that it is the right thing for our mission in Afghanistan, for our military,
and for our country.
I'm also pleased to nominate General David Petraeus to take command in Afghanistan which
will allows us to maintain the momentum and leadership that we need to succeed.
I don't make this decision based on any difference in policy with General McChrystal, as we
are in full agreement about our strategy. Nor do I make this decision out of any sense of
personal insult. Stan McChrystal has always shown great courtesy and carried out my orders
faithfully. I've got great admiration for him and for his long record of service in uniform.
Over the last nine years, with America fighting wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, he has earned a
reputation as one of our nation's finest soldiers. That reputation is founded upon his
extraordinary dedication, his deep intelligence and his love of country. I've relied on his
service, particularly in helping to design and lead our new strategy in Afghanistan. So all
Americans should be grateful for General McChrystal's remarkable career in uniform.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But war is bigger than any one man or woman, whether a private, a general or a president.
And as difficult as it is to lose General McChrystal, I believe that it is the right decision for our
national security.
The conduct represented in the recently published article does not meet the standard that
should be set by a commanding general. It undermines the civilian control of the military that
is at the core of our democratic system. And it erodes the trust that's necessary for our team
to work together to achieve our objectives in Afghanistan.
My multiple responsibilities as Commander-in-Chief led me to this decision. First, I have a
responsibility to the extraordinary men and women who are fighting this war and to the
democratic institutions that I've been elected to lead. I've got no greater honor than serving
as commander-in-chief of our men and women in uniform.
And it is my duty to ensure that no diversion complicates the vital mission that they are
carrying out. That includes adherence to a strict code of conduct. The strength and greatness
of our military is rooted in the fact that this code applies equally to newly enlisted privates and
to the general officer who commands them. That allows us to come together as one. That's
part of the reason why America has the finest fighting force in the history of the world.
It is also true that our democracy depends upon institutions that are stronger than individuals.
That includes strict adherence to the military chain of command and respect for civilian control
over that chain of command. And that's why as commander-in-chief I believe this decision is
necessary to hold ourselves accountable to standards that are at the core of our democracy.
Second, I have a responsibility to do whatever is necessary to succeed in Afghanistan and in
our broader effort to disrupt, dismantle and defeat Al Qaida. I believe that this mission
demands unity of effort across our alliance and across my national security team. And I don't
think that we can sustain that unity of effort and achieve our objectives in Afghanistan without
making this change. That, too, has guided my decision.
I've just told my national security team that now is the time for all of us to come together.
Doing so is not an option but an obligation. I welcome debate among my team, but I won't
tolerate division. All of us have personal interests. All of us have opinions. Our politics often
fuels conflict. But we have to renew our sense of common purpose and meet our
responsibilities to one another, and to our troops who are in harm's way and to our country.
We need to remember what this is all about. Our nation is at war. We face a very tough fight
in Afghanistan. But Americans don't flinch in the face of difficult truths or difficult tasks. We
persist and we persevere. We will not tolerate a safe haven for terrorists who want to destroy
Afghan society from within and launch attacks against innocent men, women and children in
our country and around the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So make no mistake, we have a clear goal. We are going to break the Taliban's momentum.
We are going to build Afghan capacity. We are going to relentlessly apply pressure on Al Qaida
and its leadership, strengthening the ability of both Afghanistan and Pakistan to do the same.
That's the strategy that we agreed to last fall. That is the policy that we are carrying out in
Afghanistan and Pakistan.
In that effort, we are honored to be joined by allies and partners who have stood by us and
paid the ultimate price through the loss of their young people at war. They are with us
because the interests and values that we share, and because this mission is fundamental to
the ability of free people to live in peace and security in the 21st century.
And General Petraeus and I were able to spend some time this morning discussing the way
forward. I'm extraordinarily grateful that he has agreed to serve in this new capacity. It
should be clear to everybody he does so at great personal sacrifice to himself and to his
family. And he is setting an extraordinary example of service and patriotism by assuming this
difficult post.
Let me say to the American people, this is a change in personnel, but it is not a change in
policy. General Petraeus fully participated in our review last fall. And he both supported and
helped design the strategy that we have in place.
In his current post at Central Command, he was worked closely with our forces in
Afghanistan; he has worked closely with Congress; he has worked closely with the Afghan and
Pakistan governments, and with all our partners in the region. He has my full confidence. And
I am urging the Senate to confirm him for this new assignment as swiftly as possible.
Let me conclude by saying that it was a difficult decision to come to the conclusion that I've
made today. Indeed, it saddens me to lose the service of a soldier who I've come to respect
and admire. But the reasons that led me to this decision are the same principles that have
supported the strength of our military and our nation since the founding. So, once again, I
thank General McChrystal for his enormous contributions to the security of this nation and to
the success of our mission in Afghanistan.
I look forward to working with General Petraeus and my entire national security team to
succeed in our mission. And I reaffirm that America stands as one in our support for the men
and women who defend it.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329604" filename="Barack_Obama_-_George_Mason_21st_Century_Economy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20George%20Mason%2021st%20Century%20Economy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at George Mason University on 21st Century Economy
delivered 8 January 2009, Fairfax, Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Let me begin by thanking George Mason University for their extraordinary hospitality and to
thank all the great friends, the governors, the mayors who are in attendance here today.
Throughout America's history, there have been some years that simply rolled into the next
without much notice or fanfare. And then there are the years that come along once in a
generation, the kind that mark a clean break from a troubled past and set a new course for
our nation. This is one of those years.
We start 2009 in the midst of a crisis unlike any we have seen in our lifetime, a crisis that has
only deepened over the last few weeks. Nearly two million jobs have been now lost. And on
Friday, we're likely to learn that we lost more jobs last year than at any time since World War
II. Just in the past year, another 2.8 million Americans who want and need full-time work
have had to settle for part-time jobs. Manufacturing has hit a 28-year low. Many businesses
cannot borrow or make payroll. Many families cannot pay their bills or their mortgage. Many
workers are watching their life savings disappear. And many, many Americans are both
anxious and uncertain of what the future will hold.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I don't believe it's too late to change course, but it will be if we don't take dramatic
action as soon as possible. If nothing is done, this recession could linger for years. The
unemployment rate could reach double digits. Our economy could fall 1 trillion dollars short of
its full capacity, which translates into more than 12,000 dollars in lost income for a family of
four. We could lose a generation of potential and promise as more young Americans are
forced to forego dreams of college or the chance to train for the jobs of the future. And our
nation could lose the competitive edge that has served as a foundation for our strength and
our standing in the world. In short, a bad situation could become dramatically worse.
This crisis did not happen solely by some accident of history or normal turn of the business
cycle. And we won't get out of it by simply waiting for a better day to come or relying on the
worn-out dogmas of the past. We arrived at this point due to an era of profound
irresponsibility that stretched from corporate board rooms to the halls of power in
Washington, D.C.
For years, too many Wall Street executives made imprudent and dangerous decisions, seeking
profits with too little regard for risk, too little regulatory scrutiny, and too little accountability.
Banks made loans without concern for whether borrowers could repay them, and some
borrowers took advantage of cheap credit to take on debt they couldn't afford. Politicians
spent taxpayer money without wisdom or discipline and too often focused on scoring political
points instead of problems they were sent here to solve. The result has been a devastating
loss of trust and confidence in our economy, our financial markets, and our government.
Now, the very fact that this crisis is largely of our own making means that it's not beyond our
ability to solve. Our problems are rooted in past mistakes, not our capacity for future
greatness. It will take time -- perhaps many years -- but we can rebuild that lost trust and
confidence. We can restore opportunity and prosperity. We should never forget that our
workers are still more productive than any on Earth. Our universities are still the envy of the
world. We are still home to the most brilliant minds, the most creative entrepreneurs, and the
most advanced technology and innovation that history has ever known. And we are still the
nation that has overcome great fears and improbable odds. If we act with the urgency and
seriousness that this moment requires, I know that we can do it again.
That is why I have moved quickly to work with my economic team and leaders of both parties
on an American Recovery and Reinvestment Plan that will immediately jump-start job creation
and long-term growth. It's a plan that represents not just new policy, but a whole new
approach to meeting our most urgent challenges. For if we hope to end this crisis, we must
end the culture of anything goes that helped create it, and this change must begin in

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Washington. It's time to trade old habits for a new spirit of responsibility. It's time to finally
change the ways of Washington so that we can set a new and better course for America.
There is no doubt that the cost of this plan will be considerable. It will certainly add to the
budget deficit in the short term. But equally certain are the consequences of doing too little or
nothing at all, for that will lead to an even greater deficit of jobs, incomes, and confidence in
our economy.
It is true that we cannot depend on government alone to create jobs or long-term growth. But
at this particular moment, only government can provide the short-term boost necessary to lift
us from a recession this deep and severe. Only government can break the cycle that are [sic]
crippling our economy, where a lack of spending leads to lost jobs, which leads to even less
spending, where an inability to lend and borrow stops growth and leads to even less credit.
That's why we need to act boldly and act now to reverse these cycles. That's why we need to
put money in the pockets of the American people, create new jobs, and invest in our future.
That's why we need to restart the flow of credit and restore the rules of the road that will
ensure a crisis like this never happens again.
Now this plan begins with -- this plan must begin today, a plan I am confident will save or
create at least three million jobs over the next few years. It's not just another public works
program. It's a plan that recognizes both the paradox and promise of this moment: the fact
that there are millions of Americans trying to find work, even as all around the country there's
so much work to be done. And that's why we'll invest in priorities like energy and education,
health care and a new infrastructure that are necessary to keep us strong and competitive in
the 21st century. That's why the overwhelming majority of the jobs created will be in the
private sector, while our plan will save the public sector jobs of teachers, police officers,
firefighters, and others who provide vital services.
To finally spark the creation of a clean energy economy, we will double the production of
alternative energy in the next three years. We will modernize more than 75 percent of federal
buildings and improve the energy efficiency of 2 million American homes, saving consumers
and taxpayers billions on our energy bills.
In the process, we will put Americans to work in new jobs that pay well and can't be
outsourced, jobs building solar panels and wind turbines, constructing fuel-efficient cars and
buildings, and developing the new energy technologies that will lead to even more jobs, more
savings, and a cleaner, safer planet in the bargain.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
To improve the quality of our health care while lowering its cost, we will make the immediate
investments necessary to ensure that, within five years, all of America's medical records are
computerized. This will cut waste, eliminate red tape and reduce the need to repeat expensive
medical tests. But it just won't save billions of dollars and thousands of jobs; it will save lives
by reducing the deadly but preventable medical errors that pervade our health care system.
To give our children the chance to live out their dreams in a world that's never been more
competitive, we will equip tens of thousands of schools, community colleges, and public
universities with 21st century classrooms, labs, and libraries. We'll provide new computers,
new technology, and new training for teachers so that students in Chicago and Boston can
compete with children in Beijing for the high-tech, high-wage jobs of the future.
To build an economy that can lead this future, we will begin to rebuild America. Yes, we'll put
people to work repairing crumbling roads, bridges, and schools by eliminating the backlog of
well-planned, worthy, and needed infrastructure projects. But we'll also do more to retrofit
America for a global economy. That means updating the way we get our electricity by starting
to build a new smart grid that will save us money, protect our power sources from blackout or
attack, and deliver clean, alternative forms of energy to every corner of our nation. It means
expanding broadband lines across America, so that a small business in a rural town can
connect and compete with their counterparts anywhere in the world. It means investing in the
science, research, and technology that will lead to new medical breakthroughs, new
discoveries, and entire new industries.
And finally, this recovery and reinvestment plan will provide immediate relief to states,
workers, and families who are bearing the brunt of this recession. To get people spending
again, 95% of working families will receive a thousand dollar tax cut -- the first stage of a
middle-class tax cut that I promised during the campaign and will include in our next budget.
To help Americans who have lost their jobs and can't find new ones, we'll continue the
bipartisan extension of unemployment insurance and health care coverage to help them
through this crisis. Government at every level will have to tighten its belt, but we'll help
struggling states avoid harmful budget cuts, as long as they take responsibility and use the
money to maintain essential services like police, fire, education, and health care.
Now I understand that some might be skeptical of this plan. Our government has already
spent a good deal of money, but we haven't yet seen that translate into more jobs or higher
incomes or renewed confidence in our economy. And that's why the American Recovery and
Reinvestment Plan won't just throw money at our problems; we'll invest in what works. The
true test of policies we'll pursue won't be whether they're Democratic or Republican ideas,

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
whether they're conservative or liberal ideas, but whether they create jobs, grow our
economy, and put the American Dream within the reach of the American people.
Instead of politicians doling out money behind a veil of secrecy, decisions about where we
invest will be made transparently, and informed by independent experts wherever possible.
Every American will be able to hold Washington accountable for these decisions by going
online to see how and where their taxpayer dollars are being spent. And as I announced
yesterday, we will launch an unprecedented effort to eliminate unwise and unnecessary
spending that has never been more unaffordable for our nation and our children's future than
it is right now.
We have to make tough choices and smart investments today so that as the economy
recovers, the deficits start coming down. We cannot have a solid recovery if our people and
our businesses don't have confidence that we're getting our fiscal house in order. And that's
why our goal is not to create a slew of new government programs, but a foundation for longterm economic growth. That also means an economic recovery plan that is free from earmarks
and pet projects. I understand that every member of Congress has ideas about how to spend
money. Many of these projects are worthy. They benefit local communities. But this
emergency legislation must not be the vehicle for those aspirations. This must be a time when
leaders in both parties put the urgent needs of our nation above our own narrow interests.
Now, this recovery plan alone will not solve all the problems that led us into this crisis. We
must also work with the same sense of urgency to stabilize and repair the financial system we
all depend on. That means using our full arsenal of tools to get credit flowing again to families
and businesses, while restoring confidence in our markets. It means launching a sweeping
effort to address the foreclosure crisis so that we can keep responsible families in their homes.
It means preventing the catastrophic failure of financial institutions whose collapse could
endanger the entire economy, but only with maximum protections for taxpayers and a clear
understanding that government support for any company is an extraordinary action that must
come with significant restrictions on the firms that receive support. And it means reforming a
weak and outdated regulatory system so that we can better withstand financial shocks and
better protect consumers, investors, and businesses from the reckless greed and risk-taking
that must never endanger our prosperity again.
No longer can we allow Wall Street wrongdoers to slip through regulatory cracks. No longer
can we allow special interests to put their thumbs on the economic scales. No longer can we
allow the unscrupulous lending and borrowing that leads only to destructive cycles of bubble
and bust. It is time to set a new course for this economy, and that change must begin now.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We should have an open and honest discussion about this recovery plan in the days ahead,
but I urge Congress to move as quickly as possible on behalf of the American people. For
every day we wait or point fingers or drag our feet, more Americans will lose their jobs. More
families will lose their savings. More dreams will be deferred and denied. And our nation will
sink deeper into a crisis that, at some point, we may not be able to reverse.
That is not the country I know. It is not a future I accept as President of the United States. A
world that depends on the strength of our economy is now watching and waiting for America
to lead once more. And that is what we will do.
It will not come easy or happen overnight, and it is altogether likely that things may get worse
before they get better. But that is all the more reason for Congress to act without delay. I
know the scale of this plan is unprecedented, but so is the severity of our situation. We have
already tried the wait-and-see approach to our problems, and it is the same approach that
helped lead us to this day of reckoning.
And that is why the time has come to build a 21st century economy in which hard work and
responsibility are once again rewarded. That's why I'm asking Congress to work with me and
my team day and night, on weekends if necessary, to get the plan passed in the next few
weeks. That's why I'm calling on all Americans -- Democrats and Republicans and
Independents -- to put -- to put good ideas ahead of the old ideological battles; a sense of
common purpose above the same narrow partisanship; and insist that the first question each
of us asks isn't, "What's good for me?" but "What's good for the country my children will
inherit?"
More than any program or policy, it is this spirit that will enable us to confront these
challenges with the same spirit that has led previous generations to face down war, and
depression, and fear itself. And if we do, if we are able to summon that spirit again, if we are
able to look out for one another, and listen to one another, and do our part for our nation and
for posterity, then I have no doubt that years from now, we will look back on 2009 as one of
those years that marked another new and hopeful beginning for the United States of America.
Thank you, God Bless You, and may God Bless America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329695" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Ghana_Parliament.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Ghana%20Parliament.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Ghanaian Parliament
delivered 11 July 2009, Accra International Conference Center, Accra, Ghana

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

I like this. Thank you. Thank you. I think Congress needs one of those horns. That sounds
pretty good. Sounds like Louis Armstrong back there.
Good afternoon, everybody. It is a great honor for me to be in Accra and to speak to the
representatives of the people of Ghana. I am deeply grateful for the welcome that I've
received, as are Michelle and Malia and Sasha Obama. Ghana's history is rich, the ties
between our two countries are strong, and I am proud that this is my first visit to subSaharan Africa as President of the United States of America.
I want to thank Madam Speaker and all the members of the House of Representatives for
hosting us today. I want to thank President Mills for his outstanding leadership. To the former
Presidents -- Jerry Rawlings, former President Kufuor -- Vice President, Chief Justice -- thanks
to all of you for your extraordinary hospitality and the wonderful institutions that you've built
here in Ghana.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I'm speaking to you at the end of a long trip. I began in Russia for a summit between two
great powers. I traveled to Italy for a meeting of the world's leading economies. And I've
come here to Ghana for a simple reason: The 21st century will be shaped by what happens
not just in Rome or Moscow or Washington, but by what happens in Accra, as well.
This is the simple truth of a time when the boundaries between people are overwhelmed by
our connections. Your prosperity can expand America's prosperity. Your health and security
can contribute to the world's health and security. And the strength of your democracy can
help advance human rights for people everywhere.
So I do not see the countries and peoples of Africa as a world apart; I see Africa as a
fundamental part of our interconnected world -- as partners with America on behalf of the
future we want for all of our children. That partnership must be grounded in mutual
responsibility and mutual respect. And that is what I want to speak with you about today.
We must start from the simple premise that Africa's future is up to Africans.
I say this knowing full well the tragic past that has sometimes haunted this part of the
world. After all, I have the blood of Africa within me, and my family's -- my family's own story
encompasses both the tragedies and triumphs of the larger African story.
Some you know my grandfather was a cook for the British in Kenya, and though he was a
respected elder in his village, his employers called him "boy" for much of his life. He was on
the periphery of Kenya's liberation struggles, but he was still imprisoned briefly during
repressive times. In his life, colonialism wasn't simply the creation of unnatural borders or
unfair terms of trade -- it was something experienced personally, day after day, year after
year.
My father grew up herding goats in a tiny village, an impossible distance away from the
American universities where he would come to get an education. He came of age at a moment
of extraordinary promise for Africa. The struggles of his own father's generation were giving
birth to new nations, beginning right here in Ghana. Africans were educating and asserting
themselves in new ways, and history was on the move.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
But despite the progress that has been made -- and there has been considerable progress in
many parts of Africa -- we also know that much of that promise has yet to be
fulfilled. Countries like Kenya had a per capita economy larger than South Korea's when I was
born. They have badly been outpaced. Disease and conflict have ravaged parts of the African
continent.
In many places, the hope of my father's generation gave way to cynicism, even despair. Now,
it's easy to point fingers and to pin the blame of these problems on others. Yes, a colonial
map that made little sense helped to breed conflict. The West has often approached Africa as
a patron or a source of resources rather than a partner. But the West is not responsible for
the destruction of the Zimbabwean economy over the last decade, or wars in which children
are enlisted as combatants. In my father's life, it was partly tribalism and patronage and
nepotism in an independent Kenya that for a long stretch derailed his career, and we know
that this kind of corruption is still a daily fact of life for far too many.
Now, we know that's also not the whole story. Here in Ghana, you show us a face of Africa
that is too often overlooked by a world that sees only tragedy or a need for charity. The
people of Ghana have worked hard to put democracy on a firmer footing, with repeated
peaceful transfers of power even in the wake of closely contested elections. And by the way,
can I say that for that the minority deserves as much credit as the majority. And with
improved governance and an emerging civil society, Ghana's economy has shown impressive
rates of growth.
This progress may lack the drama of 20th century liberation struggles, but make no
mistake: It will ultimately be more significant. For just as it is important to emerge from the
control of other nations, it is even more important to build one's own nation.
So I believe that this moment is just as promising for Ghana and for Africa as the moment
when my father came of age and new nations were being born. This is a new moment of great
promise. Only this time, we've learned that it will not be giants like Nkrumah and Kenyatta
who will determine Africa's future. Instead, it will be you -- the men and women in Ghana's
parliament -- the people you represent. It will be the young people brimming with talent and
energy and hope who can claim the future that so many in previous generations never
realized.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, to realize that promise, we must first recognize the fundamental truth that you have
given life to in Ghana: Development depends on good governance.

That is the ingredient

which has been missing in far too many places, for far too long. That's the change that can
unlock Africa's potential. And that is a responsibility that can only be met by Africans.
As for America and the West, our commitment must be measured by more than just the
dollars we spend. I've pledged substantial increases in our foreign assistance, which is in
Africa's interests and America's interests. But the true sign of success is not whether we are a
source of perpetual aid that helps people scrape by -- it's whether we are partners in building
the capacity for transformational change.
This mutual responsibility must be the foundation of our partnership. And today, I'll focus on
four areas that are critical to the future of Africa and the entire developing world: democracy,
opportunity, health, and the peaceful resolution of conflict.
First, we must support strong and sustainable democratic governments.
As I -- As I said in Cairo, each nation gives life to democracy in its own way, and in line with
its own traditions. But history offers a clear verdict: Governments that respect the will of their
own people, that govern by consent and not coercion, are more -- more prosperous, they are
more stable, and more successful than governments that do not.
This is about more than just holding elections. It's also about what happens between
elections. Repression can take many forms, and too many nations, even those that have
elections, are plagued by problems that condemn their people to poverty. No country is going
to create wealth if its leaders exploit the economy to enrich themselves -- or -- or if police -- if
police can be bought off by drug traffickers. No business -- No business wants to invest in a
place where the government skims 20 percent off the top -- or the head of the Port Authority
is corrupt. No person wants to live in a society where the rule of law gives way to the rule of
brutality and bribery. That is not democracy, that is tyranny, even if occasionally you sprinkle
an election in there. And now is the time for that style of governance to end.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
In the 21st century, capable, reliable, and transparent institutions are the key to success -strong parliaments; honest police forces; independent judges; an independent press; a
vibrant private sector; a civil society. Those are the things that give life to democracy,
because that is what matters in people's everyday lives.
Now, time and again, Ghanaians have chosen constitutional rule over autocracy, and shown a
democratic spirit that allows the energy of your people to break through. We see that in
leaders who accept defeat graciously -- the fact that President Mills' opponents were standing
beside him last night to greet me when I came off the plane spoke volumes about Ghana;
victors who resist calls to wield power against the opposition in unfair ways. We see that spirit
in courageous journalists like Anas Aremeyaw Anas, who risked his life to report the truth. We
see it in police like Patience Quaye, who helped prosecute the first human trafficker in
Ghana. We see it in the young people who are speaking up against patronage, and
participating in the political process.
Across Africa, we've seen countless examples of people taking control of their destiny, and
making change from the bottom up. We saw it in Kenya, where civil society and business
came together to help stop post-election violence. We saw it in South Africa, where over
three-quarters of the country voted in the recent election -- the fourth since the end of
Apartheid. We saw it in Zimbabwe, where the Election Support Network braved brutal
repression to stand up for the principle that a person's vote is their sacred right.
Now, make no mistake: History is on the side of these brave Africans, not with those who use
coups or change constitutions to stay in power. Africa -- Africa doesn't need strongmen; it
needs strong institutions.
Now, America will not seek to impose any system of government on any other nation. The
essential truth of democracy is that each nation determines its own destiny. But what America
will do is increase assistance for responsible individuals and responsible institutions, with a
focus on supporting good governance -- on parliaments, which check abuses of power and
ensure that opposition voices are heard; on the rule of law, which ensures the equal
administration of justice; on civic participation, so that young people get involved; and on
concrete solutions to corruption like forensic accounting and automating services -strengthening hotlines, protecting whistle-blowers to advance transparency and
accountability.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we provide this support. I have directed my Administration to give greater attention to
corruption in our human rights reports. People everywhere should have the right to start a
business or get an education without paying a bribe. We have a responsibility to support
those who act responsibly and to isolate those who don't, and that is exactly what America will
do.
Now, this leads directly to our second area of partnership: supporting development that
provides opportunity for more people.
With better governance, I have no doubt that Africa holds the promise of a broader base of
prosperity. Witness the extraordinary success of Africans in my country, America. They're
doing very well. So they've got the talent, they've got the entrepreneurial spirit. The question
is, how do we make sure that they're succeeding here in their home countries? The continent
is rich in natural resources. And from cell phone entrepreneurs to small farmers, Africans have
shown the capacity and commitment to create their own opportunities. But old habits must
also be broken. Dependence on commodities -- or a single export -- has a tendency to
concentrate wealth in the hands of the few, and leaves people too vulnerable to downturns.
So in Ghana, for instance, oil brings great opportunities, and you have been very responsible
in preparing for new revenue. But as so many Ghanaians know, oil cannot simply become the
new cocoa. From South Korea to Singapore, history shows that countries thrive when they
invest in their people and in their infrastructure; when they promote multiple export
industries, develop a skilled workforce, and create space for small and medium-sized
businesses that create jobs.
As Africans reach for this promise, America will be more responsible in extending our hand. By
cutting costs that go to Western consultants and administration, we want to put more
resources in the hands of those who need it, while training people to do more for
themselves. That's why our 3.5 billion dollar food security initiative is focused on new
methods and technologies for farmers -- not simply sending American producers or goods to
Africa. Aid is not an end in itself. The purpose of foreign assistance must be creating the
conditions where it's no longer needed. I want to see Ghanaians not only self-sufficient in
food, I want to see you exporting food to other countries and earning money. You can do that.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, America can also do more to promote trade and investment. Wealthy nations must open
our doors to goods and services from Africa in a meaningful way. That will be a commitment
of my Administration. And where there is good governance, we can broaden prosperity
through public-private partnerships that invest in better roads and electricity; capacitybuilding that trains people to grow a business; financial services that reach not just the cities
but also the poor and rural areas. This is also in our own interests -- for if people are lifted out
of poverty and wealth is created in Africa, guess what? New markets will open up for our own
goods. So it's good for both.
One area that holds out both undeniable peril and extraordinary promise is energy. Africa
gives off less greenhouse gas than any other part of the world, but it is the most threatened
by climate change. A warming planet will spread disease, shrink water resources, and deplete
crops, creating conditions that produce more famine and more conflict. All of us -- particularly
the developed world -- have a responsibility to slow these trends -- through mitigation, and by
changing the way that we use energy. But we can also work with Africans to turn this crisis
into opportunity.
Together, we can partner on behalf of our planet and prosperity, and help countries increase
access to power while skipping -- leapfrogging the dirtier phase of development. Think about
it: Across Africa, there is bountiful wind and solar power; geothermal energy and
biofuels. From the Rift Valley to the North African deserts; from the Western coasts to South
Africa's crops -- Africa's boundless natural gifts can generate its own power, while exporting
profitable, clean energy abroad.
These steps are about more than growth numbers on a balance sheet. They're about whether
a young person with an education can get a job that supports a family; a farmer can transfer
their goods to market; an entrepreneur with a good idea can start a business. It's about the
dignity of work; it's about the opportunity that must exist for Africans in the 21st century.
Just as governance is vital to opportunity, it's also critical to the third area I want to talk
about: strengthening public health.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
In recent years, enormous progress has been made in parts of Africa. Far more people are
living productively with HIV/AIDS, and getting the drugs they need. I just saw a wonderful
clinic and hospital that is focused particularly on maternal health. But too many still die from
diseases that shouldn't kill them. When children are being killed because of a mosquito bite,
and mothers are dying in childbirth, then we know that more progress must be made.
Yet because of incentives -- often provided by donor nations -- many African doctors and
nurses go overseas, or work for programs that focus on a single disease. And this creates
gaps in primary care and basic prevention. Meanwhile, individual Africans also have to make
responsible choices that prevent the spread of disease, while promoting public health in their
communities and countries.
So across Africa, we see examples of people tackling these problems. In Nigeria, an Interfaith
effort of Christians and Muslims has set an example of cooperation to confront malaria. Here
in Ghana and across Africa, we see innovative ideas for filling gaps in care -- for instance,
through E-Health initiatives that allow doctors in big cities to support those in small towns.
America will support these efforts through a comprehensive, global health strategy, because
in the 21st century, we are called to act by our conscience but also by our common interest,
because when a child dies of a preventable disease in Accra, that diminishes us
everywhere. And when disease goes unchecked in any corner of the world, we know that it
can spread across oceans and continents.
And that's why my Administration has committed 63 billion dollars to meet these challenges -63 billion dollars. Building on the strong efforts of President Bush, we will carry forward the
fight against HIV/AIDS. We will pursue the goal of ending deaths from malaria and
tuberculosis, and we will work to eradicate polio. We will fight -- we will fight neglected
tropical disease. And we won't confront illnesses in isolation -- we will invest in public health
systems that promote wellness and focus on the health of mothers and children.
Now, as we partner on behalf of a healthier future, we must also stop the destruction that
comes not from illness, but from human beings -- and so the final area that I will address is
conflict.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Let me be clear: Africa is not the crude caricature of a continent at perpetual war. But if we
are honest, for far too many Africans, conflict is a part of life, as constant as the sun. There
are wars over land and wars over resources. And it is still far too easy for those without
conscience to manipulate whole communities into fighting among faiths and tribes.
These conflicts are a millstone around Africa's neck. Now, we all have many identities -- of
tribe and ethnicity; of religion and nationality. But defining oneself in opposition to someone
who belongs to a different tribe, or who worships a different prophet, has no place in the 21st
century. Africa's diversity should be a source of strength, not a cause for division. We are all
God's children. We all share common aspirations -- to live in peace and security; to access
education and opportunity; to love our families and our communities and our faith. That is our
common humanity.
That is why we must stand up to inhumanity in our midst. It is never justified -- never
justifiable to target innocents in the name of ideology. It is the death sentence of a society to
force children to kill in wars. It is the ultimate mark of criminality and cowardice to condemn
women to relentless and systemic rape. We must bear witness to the value of every child in
Darfur and the dignity of every woman in the Congo. No faith or culture should condone the
outrages against them. And all of us must strive for the peace and security necessary for
progress.
Africans are standing up for this future. Here, too, in Ghana we are seeing you help point the
way forward. Ghanaians should take pride in your contributions to peacekeeping from Congo
to Liberia to Lebanon -- and your efforts to resist the scourge of the drug trade. We welcome
the steps that are being taken by organizations like the African Union and ECOWAS to better
resolve conflicts, to keep the peace, and support those in need. And we encourage the vision
of a strong, regional security architecture that can bring effective, transnational forces to bear
when needed.
America has a responsibility to work with you as a partner to advance this vision, not just with
words, but with support that strengthens African capacity. When there's a genocide in Darfur
or terrorists in Somalia, these are not simply African problems -- they are global security
challenges, and they demand a global response.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why we stand ready to partner through diplomacy and technical assistance and
logistical support, and we will stand behind efforts to hold war criminals accountable. And let
me be clear: Our Africa Command is focused not on establishing a foothold in the continent,
but on confronting these common challenges to advance the security of America, Africa, and
the world.
In Moscow, I spoke of the need for an international system where the universal rights of
human beings are respected, and violations of those rights are opposed. And that must
include a commitment to support those who resolve conflicts peacefully, to sanction and stop
those who don't, and to help those who have suffered. But ultimately, it will be vibrant
democracies like Botswana and Ghana which roll back the causes of conflict and advance the
frontiers of peace and prosperity.
As I said earlier, Africa's future is up to Africans.
The people of Africa are ready to claim that future. And in my country, African Americans -including so many recent immigrants -- have thrived in every sector of society. We've done so
despite a difficult past, and we've drawn strength from our African heritage. With strong
institutions and a strong will, I know that Africans can live their dreams in Nairobi and Lagos,
Kigali, Kinshasa, Harare, and right here in Accra.
You know, 52 years ago, the eyes of the world were on Ghana. And a young preacher named
Martin Luther King traveled here, to Accra, to watch the Union Jack come down and the
Ghanaian flag go up. This was before the march on Washington or the success of the civil
rights movement in my country. Dr. King was asked how he felt while watching the birth of a
nation. And he said: "It renews my conviction in the ultimate triumph of justice."1
Now that triumph must be won once more, and it must be won by you. And I am particularly
speaking to the young people all across Africa and right here in Ghana. In places like Ghana,
young people make up over half of the population.
And here is what you must know: The world will be what you make of it. You have the power
to hold your leaders accountable, and to build institutions that serve the people. You can
serve in your communities, and harness your energy and education to create new wealth and
build new connections to the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
You can conquer disease, and end conflicts, and make change from the bottom up. You can do
that. Yes you can -- because in this moment, history is on the move.
But these things can only be done if all of you take responsibility for your future. And it won't
be easy. It will take time and effort. There will be suffering and setbacks. But I can promise
you this: America will be with you every step of the way -- as a partner, as a
friend. Opportunity won't come from any other place, though. It must come from the
decisions that all of you make, the things that you do, the hope that you hold in your heart.
Ghana, freedom is your inheritance. Now, it is your responsibility to build upon freedom's
foundation. And if you do, we will look back years from now to places like Accra and say this
was the time when the promise was realized; this was the moment when prosperity was
forged, when pain was overcome, and a new era of progress began. This can be the time
when we witness the triumph of justice once more.
Yes we can.
Thank you very much. God bless you.
Thank you.

1

King, M.L. (1957). Interview by Etta Moten Barnett. Martin Luther King Papers Project at Stanford University.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329581" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Global_Climate_Message.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Global%20Climate%20Message.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Recorded Remarks to Global Climate Summit
First Broadcast 18 November 2008

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Let me begin by thanking the bipartisan group of U.S. Governors who convened this meeting.
Few challenges facing America -- and the world -- are more urgent than combating climate
change. The science is beyond dispute and the facts are clear. Sea levels are rising. Coastlines
are shrinking. We’ve seen record drought, spreading famine, and storms that are growing
stronger with each passing hurricane season.
Climate change and our dependence on foreign oil, if left unaddressed, will continue to
weaken our economy and threaten our national security.
I know many of you are working to confront this challenge. In particular, I want to commend
Governor Sebelius, Governor Doyle, Governor Crist, Governor Blagojevich and your host,
Governor Schwarzenegger. All of you have shown true leadership in the fight to combat global
warming. And we’ve also seen a number of businesses doing their part by investing in clean
energy technologies.
But too often, Washington has failed to show the same kind of leadership. That will change
when I take office. My presidency will mark a new chapter in America’s leadership on climate
change that will strengthen our security and create millions of new jobs in the process. That
will start with a federal cap and trade system.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/29/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We'll establish strong annual targets that set us on a course to reduce emissions to their 1990
levels by 2020 and reduce them an additional 80% by 2050. Further, we'll invest 15 billion
dollars each year to catalyze private sector efforts to build a clean energy future. We'll invest
in solar power, wind power, and next-generation biofuels. We'll tap nuclear power, while
making sure it’s safe; and we'll develop clean coal technologies.
This investment will not only help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil, making the United
States more secure; and it will not only help us bring about a clean energy future, saving the
planet. It will also help us transform our industries and steer our country out of this economic
crisis by generating five million new green jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced.
The truth is, the United States can't meet this challenge alone. Solving this problem will
require all of us working together. I understand that your meeting is being attended by
government officials from over a dozen countries, including the UK, Canada, Mexico, Brazil
and Chile, Poland and Australia, India and Indonesia. And I look forward to working with all
nations to meet this challenge in the coming years.
Let me also say a special word to the delegates from around the world who will gather at
Poland next month. Your work is vital to the planet. While I won’t be President at the time of
your meeting and while the United States has only one President at a time, I’ve asked
Members of Congress who are attending the conference as observers to report back to me on
what they learn there. And once I take office, you can be sure that the United States will once
again engage vigorously in these negotiations, and help lead the world toward a new era of
global cooperation on climate change.
Now is the time to confront this challenge once and for all. Delay is no longer an option.
Denial is no longer an acceptable response. The stakes are too high; the consequences too
serious. Stopping climate change won’t be easy and it won’t happen overnight. But I promise
you this: When I am President, any governor who’s willing to promote clean energy will have
a partner in the White House. Any company that’s willing to invest in clean energy will have
an ally in Washington. And any nation that’s willing to join the cause of combating climate
change will have an ally in the United States of America.
Thank you.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/29/21

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329763" filename="Barack_Obama_-_GOP_House_Issues_Conference.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20GOP%20House%20Issues%20Conference.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Open Forum at GOP House Issues Conference
delivered 29 January 2010, Baltimore, Maryland

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you, John, for the gracious introduction. To Mike and Eric, thank you for hosting me.
Thank you to all of you for receiving me. It is wonderful to be here. I want to also
acknowledge Mark Strand, president of the Congressional Institute. To all the family
members who are here and who have to put up with us for an elective office each and every
day, thank you, because I know that's tough.
I very much am appreciative of not only the tone of your introduction, John, but also the
invitation that you extended to me. You know what they say, "Keep your friends close, but
visit the Republican Caucus every few months."
Part of the reason I accepted your invitation to come here was because I wanted to speak
with all of you, and not just to all of you. So I'm looking forward to taking your questions and
having a real conversation in a few moments. And I hope that the conversation we begin here
doesn't end here; that we can continue our dialogue in the days ahead. It's important to me
that we do so. It's important to you, I think, that we do so. But most importantly, it's
important to the American people that we do so.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I've said this before, but I'm a big believer not just in the value of a loyal opposition, but in its
necessity. Having differences of opinion, having a real debate about matters of domestic
policy and national security -- and that's not something that's only good for our country, it's
absolutely essential. It's only through the process of disagreement and debate that bad ideas
get tossed out and good ideas get refined and made better. And that kind of vigorous back
and forth -- that imperfect but well-founded process, messy as it often is -- is at the heart of
our democracy. That's what makes us the greatest nation in the world.
So, yes, I want you to challenge my ideas, and I guarantee you that after reading this I may
challenge a few of yours. I want you to stand up for your beliefs, and knowing this caucus, I
have no doubt that you will. I want us to have a constructive debate. The only thing I don't
want -- and here I am listening to the American people, and I think they don't want either -is for Washington to continue being so Washington-like. I know folks, when we're in town
there, spend a lot of time reading the polls and looking at focus groups and interpreting which
party has the upper hand in November and in 2012 and so on and so on and so on. That's
their obsession.
And I'm not a pundit. I'm just a President, so take it for what it's worth. But I don't believe
that the American people want us to focus on our job security. They want us to focus on their
job security. I don't think they want more gridlock. I don't think they want more
partisanship. I don't think they want more obstruction. They didn't send us to Washington to
fight each other in some sort of political steel-cage match to see who comes out alive. That's
not what they want. They sent us to Washington to work together, to get things done, and to
solve the problems that they're grappling with every single day.
And I think your constituents would want to know that despite the fact it doesn't get a lot of
attention, you and I have actually worked together on a number of occasions. There have
been times where we've acted in a bipartisan fashion. And I want to thank you and your
Democratic colleagues for reaching across the aisle. There has been, for example, broad
support for putting in the troops necessary in Afghanistan to deny al Qaeda safe haven, to
break the Taliban's momentum, and to train Afghan security forces. There's been broad
support for disrupting, dismantling, and defeating al Qaeda. And I know that we're all united
in our admiration of our troops.
So it may be useful for the international audience right now to understand -- and certainly for
our enemies to have no doubt -- whatever divisions and differences may exist in Washington,
the United States of America stands as one to defend our country.
It's that same spirit of bipartisanship that made it possible for me to sign a defense
contracting reform bill that was cosponsored by Senator McCain and members of Congress
here today. We've stood together on behalf of our nation's veterans. Together we passed the
largest increase in the VA's budget in more than 30 years and supported essential veterans'
health care reforms to provide better access and medical care for those who serve in uniform.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Some of you also joined Democrats in supporting a Credit Card Bill of Rights and in extending
unemployment compensation to Americans who are out of work. Some of you joined us in
stopping tobacco companies from targeting kids, expanding opportunities for young people to
serve our country, and helping responsible homeowners stay in their homes.
So we have a track record of working together. It is possible. But, as John, you mentioned,
on some very big things, we've seen party-line votes that, I'm just going to be honest, were
disappointing. Let's start with our efforts to jumpstart the economy last winter, when we
were losing 700,000 jobs a month. Our financial system teetered on the brink of collapse and
the threat of a second Great Depression loomed large. I didn't understand then, and I still
don't understand, why we got opposition in this caucus for almost $300 billion in badly needed
tax cuts for the American people, or COBRA coverage to help Americans who've lost jobs in
this recession to keep the health insurance that they desperately needed, or opposition to
putting Americans to work laying broadband and rebuilding roads and bridges and breaking
ground on new construction projects.
There was an interesting headline in CNN today: "Americans disapprove of stimulus, but like
every policy in it." And there was a poll that showed that if you broke it down into its
component parts, 80 percent approved of the tax cuts, 80 percent approved of the
infrastructure, 80 percent approved of the assistance to the unemployed.
Well, that's what the Recovery Act was. And let's face it, some of you have been at the
ribbon-cuttings for some of these important projects in your communities. Now, I understand
some of you had some philosophical differences perhaps on the just the concept of
government spending, but, as I recall, opposition was declared before we had a chance to
actually meet and exchange ideas. And I saw that as a missed opportunity.
Now, I am happy to report this morning that we saw another sign that our economy is moving
in the right direction. The latest GDP numbers show that our economy is growing by almost 6
percent -- that's the most since 2003. To put that in perspective, this time last year, we
weren't seeing positive job growth; we were seeing the economy shrink by about 6 percent.
So you've seen a 12 percent reversal during the course of this year. This turnaround is the
biggest in nearly three decades -- and it didn't happen by accident. It happened -- as
economists, conservative and liberal, will attest -- because of some of the steps that we took.
And by the way, you mentioned a Web site out here, John -- if you want to look at what's
going on, on the Recovery Act, you can look on recovery.gov -- a Web site, by the way, that
was Eric Cantor's idea.
Now, here's the point. These are serious times, and what's required by all of us -- Democrats
and Republicans -- is to do what's right for our country, even if it's not always what's best for
our politics. I know it may be heresy to say this, but there are things more important than
good poll numbers.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And on this no one can accuse me of not living by my principles. A middle class that's back on
its feet, an economy that lifts everybody up, an America that's ascendant in the world -- that's
more important than winning an election. Our future shouldn't be shaped by what's best for
our politics; our politics should be shaped by what's best for our future.
But no matter what's happened in the past, the important thing for all of us is to move
forward together. We have some issues right in front of us on which I believe we should
agree, because as successful as we've been in spurring new economic growth, everybody
understands that job growth has been lagging. Some of that's predictable. Every economist
will say jobs are a lagging indicator, but that's no consolation for the folks who are out there
suffering right now. And since 7 million Americans have lost their jobs in this recession, we've
got to do everything we can to accelerate it.
So, today, in line with what I stated at the State of the Union, I've proposed a new jobs tax
credit for small business. And here's how it would work. Employers would get a tax credit of
up to $5,000 for every employee they add in 2010. They'd get a tax break for increases in
wages, as well. So, if you raise wages for employees making under $100,000, we'd refund
part of your payroll tax for every dollar you increase those wages faster than inflation. It's a
simple concept. It's easy to understand. It would cut taxes for more than 1 million small
businesses.
So I hope you join me. Let's get this done. I want to eliminate the capital gains tax for small
business investment, and take some of the bailout money the Wall Street banks have
returned and use it to help community banks start lending to small businesses again. So join
me. I am confident that we can do this together for the American people. And there's
nothing in that proposal that runs contrary to the ideological predispositions of this caucus.
The question is: What's going to keep us from getting this done?
I've proposed a modest fee on the nation's largest banks and financial institutions to fully
recover for taxpayers' money that they provided to the financial sector when it was teetering
on the brink of collapse. And it's designed to discourage them from taking reckless risks in
the future. If you listen to the American people, John, they'll tell you they want their money
back. Let's do this together, Republicans and Democrats.
I propose that we close tax loopholes that reward companies for shipping American jobs
overseas, and instead give companies greater incentive to create jobs right here at home -right here at home. Surely, that's something that we can do together, Republicans and
Democrats.
We know that we've got a major fiscal challenge in reining in deficits that have been growing
for a decade, and threaten our future. That's why I've proposed a three-year freeze in
discretionary spending other than what we need for national security. That's something we
should do together that's consistent with a lot of the talk both in Democratic caucuses and
Republican caucuses. We can't blink when it's time to actually do the job.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
At this point, we know that the budget surpluses of the '90s occurred in part because of the
pay-as-you-go law, which said that, well, you should pay as you go and live within our means,
just like families do every day. Twenty-four of you voted for that, and I appreciate it. And we
were able to pass it in the Senate yesterday.
But the idea of a bipartisan fiscal commission to confront the deficits in the long term died in
the Senate the other day. So I'm going to establish such a commission by executive order
and I hope that you participate, fully and genuinely, in that effort, because if we're going to
actually deal with our deficit and debt, everybody here knows that we're going to have to do it
together, Republican and Democrat. No single party is going to make the tough choices
involved on its own. It's going to require all of us doing what's right for the American people.
And as I said in the State of the Union speech, there's not just a deficit of dollars in
Washington, there is a deficit of trust. So I hope you'll support my proposal to make all
congressional earmarks public before they come to a vote. And let's require lobbyists who
exercise such influence to publicly disclose all their contacts on behalf of their clients, whether
they are contacts with my administration or contacts with Congress. Let's do the people's
business in the bright light of day, together, Republicans and Democrats.
I know how bitter and contentious the issue of health insurance reform has become. And I
will eagerly look at the ideas and better solutions on the health care front. If anyone here
truly believes our health insurance system is working well for people, I respect your right to
say so, but I just don't agree. And neither would millions of Americans with preexisting
conditions who can't get coverage today or find out that they lose their insurance just as
they're getting seriously ill. That's exactly when you need insurance. And for too many
people, they're not getting it. I don't think a system is working when small businesses are
gouged and 15,000 Americans are losing coverage every single day; when premiums have
doubled and out-of-pocket costs have exploded and they're poised to do so again.
I mean, to be fair, the status quo is working for the insurance industry, but it's not working for
the American people. It's not working for our federal budget. It needs to change.
This is a big problem, and all of us are called on to solve it. And that's why, from the start, I
sought out and supported ideas from Republicans. I even talked about an issue that has been
a holy grail for a lot of you, which was tort reform, and said that I'd be willing to work
together as part of a comprehensive package to deal with it. I just didn't get a lot of nibbles.
Creating a high-risk pool for uninsured folks with preexisting conditions, that wasn't my idea,
it was Senator McCain's. And I supported it, and it got incorporated into our approach.
Allowing insurance companies to sell coverage across state lines to add choice and
competition and bring down costs for businesses and consumers -- that's an idea that some of
you I suspect included in this better solutions; that's an idea that was incorporated into our
package. And I support it, provided that we do it hand in hand with broader reforms that
protect benefits and protect patients and protect the American people.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
A number of you have suggested creating pools where self-employed and small businesses
could buy insurance. That was a good idea. I embraced it. Some of you supported efforts to
provide insurance to children and let kids remain covered on their parents' insurance until
they're 25 or 26. I supported that. That's part of our package. I supported a number of
other ideas, from incentivizing wellness to creating an affordable catastrophic insurance option
for young people that came from Republicans like Mike Enzi and Olympia Snowe in the
Senate, and I'm sure from some of you as well. So when you say I ought to be willing to
accept Republican ideas on health care, let's be clear: I have.
Bipartisanship -- not for its own sake but to solve problems -- that's what our constituents,
the American people, need from us right now. All of us then have a choice to make. We have
to choose whether we're going to be politicians first or partners for progress; whether we're
going to put success at the polls ahead of the lasting success we can achieve together for
America. Just think about it for a while. We don't have to put it up for a vote today.
Let me close by saying this. I was not elected by Democrats or Republicans, but by the
American people. That's especially true because the fastest growing group of Americans are
independents. That should tell us both something. I'm ready and eager to work with anyone
who is willing to proceed in a spirit of goodwill. But understand, if we can't break free from
partisan gridlock, if we can't move past a politics of "no," if resistance supplants constructive
debate, I still have to meet my responsibilities as President. I've got to act for the greater
good –- because that, too, is a commitment that I have made. And that's -- that, too, is what
the American people sent me to Washington to do.
So I am optimistic. I know many of you individually. And the irony, I think, of our political
climate right now is that, compared to other countries, the differences between the two major
parties on most issues is not as big as it's represented. But we've gotten caught up in the
political game in a way that's just not healthy. It's dividing our country in ways that are
preventing us from meeting the challenges of the 21st century. I'm hopeful that the
conversation we have today can help reverse that.

So thank you very much. Thank you, John. Now I'd like to open it up for questions.
Congressman Pence: The President has agreed to take questions and members would be
encouraged to raise your hand while you remain in your seat. The chair will take the
prerogative to make the first remarks. Mr. President, welcome back to the House Republican
Conference.
President Obama: Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Congressman Pence: [Off microphone.] We are pleased to have you return. [Inaudible] a
year ago -- House Republicans said then we would make you two promises. Number one, that
most of the people in this room and their families would pray for you and your beautiful family
just about every day for the next four years. And I want to assure you we're keeping that
promise.
President Obama: I appreciate that.
Congressman Pence: [off microphone] Number two, our pledge to you, Mr. President, was
that door is always open. And we hope the [inaudible] of our invitation that we [inaudible].
Mr. President, several of us in this conference yesterday on the way into Baltimore stopped by
the Salvation Army homeless facility here in Baltimore. I met a little boy, an African American
boy, in the 8th grade, named David Carter, Jr. When he heard that I would be seeing you
today his eyes lit up like I had never seen. And I told him that if he wrote you a letter I'd give
it to you, and I have.
But I had a conversation with little David, Jr. and David, Sr. His family has been struggling
with the economy.
[On microphone.] His dad said words to me, Mr. President, that I'll never forget. About my
age and he said -- he said, Congressman, it's not like it was when we were coming up. He
said, there's just no jobs.
Now, last year about the time you met with us, unemployment was 7.5 percent in this
country. Your administration, and your party in Congress, told us that we'd have to borrow
more than $700 billion to pay for a so-called stimulus bill. It was a piecemeal list of projects
and boutique tax cuts, all of which was -- we were told -- had to be passed or unemployment
would go to 8 percent, as your administration said. Well, unemployment is 10 percent now,
as you well know, Mr. President; here in Baltimore it's considerably higher.
Now, Republicans offered a stimulus bill at the same time. It cost half as much as the
Democratic proposal in Congress, and using your economic analyst models, it would have
created twice the jobs at half the cost. It essentially was across-the-board tax relief, Mr.
President.
Now we know you've come to Baltimore today and you've raised this tax credit, which was
last promoted by President Jimmy Carter. But the first question I would pose to you, very
respectfully, Mr. President, is would you be willing to consider embracing -- in the name of
little David Carter, Jr. and his dad, in the name of every struggling family in this country -the kind of across-the-board tax relief that Republicans have advocated, that President
Kennedy advocated, that President Reagan advocated and that has always been the means of
stimulating broad-based economic growth?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, there was a lot packed into that question. First of all, let me say I
already promised that I'll be writing back to that young man and his family, and I appreciate
you passing on the letter.
Member: Thank you.
President Obama: But let's talk about just the jobs environment generally. You're
absolutely right that when I was sworn in the hope was that unemployment would remain
around 8 [percent], or in the 8 percent range. That was just based on the estimates made by
both conservative and liberal economists, because at that point not all the data had trickled
in.
We had lost 650,000 jobs in December. I'm assuming you're not faulting my policies for that.
We had lost, it turns out, 700,000 jobs in January, the month I was sworn in. I'm assuming it
wasn't my administration's policies that accounted for that. We lost another 650,000 jobs the
subsequent month, before any of my policies had gone into effect. So I'm assuming that
wasn't as a consequence of our policies; that doesn't reflect the failure of the Recovery Act.
The point being that what ended up happening was that the job losses from this recession
proved to be much more severe -- in the first quarter of last year going into the second
quarter of last year -- than anybody anticipated.
So I mean, I think we can score political points on the basis of the fact that we
underestimated how severe the job losses were going to be. But those job losses took place
before any stimulus, whether it was the ones that you guys have proposed or the ones that
we proposed, could have ever taken into effect. Now, that's just the fact, Mike, and I don't
think anybody would dispute that. You could not find an economist who would dispute that.
Now, at the same time, as I mentioned, most economists -- Republican and Democrat, liberal
and conservative -- would say that had it not been for the stimulus package that we passed,
things would be much worse. Now, they didn't fill a 7 million hole in the number of people
who were unemployed. They probably account for about 2 million, which means we still have
5 million folks in there that we've still got to deal with. That's a lot of people.
The package that we put together at the beginning of the year, the truth is, should have
reflected -- and I believe reflected what most of you would say are common sense things.
This notion that this was a radical package is just not true. A third of them were tax cuts, and
they weren't -- when you say they were "boutique" tax cuts, Mike, 95 percent of working
Americans got tax cuts, small businesses got tax cuts, large businesses got help in terms of
their depreciation schedules. I mean, it was a pretty conventional list of tax cuts. A third of it
was stabilizing state budgets.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
There is not a single person in here who, had it not been for what was in the stimulus
package, wouldn't be going home to more teachers laid off, more firefighters laid off, more
cops laid off. A big chunk of it was unemployment insurance and COBRA, just making sure
that people had some floor beneath them, and, by the way, making sure that there was
enough money in their pockets that businesses had some customers.
You take those two things out, that accounts for the majority of the stimulus package. Are
there people in this room who think that was a bad idea? A portion of it was dealing with the
AMT, the alternative minimum tax -- not a proposal of mine; that's not a consequence of my
policies that we have a tax system where we keep on putting off a potential tax hike that is
embedded in the budget that we have to fix each year. That cost about $70 billion.
And then the last portion of it was infrastructure which, as I said, a lot of you have gone to
appear at ribbon-cuttings for the same projects that you voted against.
Now, I say all this not to re-litigate the past, but it's simply to state that the component parts
of the Recovery Act are consistent with what many of you say are important things to do -rebuilding our infrastructure, tax cuts for families and businesses, and making sure that we
were providing states and individuals some support when the roof was caving in.
And the notion that I would somehow resist doing something that cost half as much but would
produce twice as many jobs -- why would I resist that? I wouldn't. I mean, that's my point,
is that -- I am not an ideologue. I'm not. It doesn't make sense if somebody could tell me
you could do this cheaper and get increased results that I wouldn't say, great. The problem
is, I couldn't find credible economists who would back up the claims that you just made.
Now, we can -- here's what I know going forward, though. I mean, we're talking -- we were
talking about the past. We can talk about this going forward. I have looked at every idea out
there in terms of accelerating job growth to match the economic growth that's already taken
place. The jobs credit that I'm discussing right now is one that a lot of people think would be
the most cost-effective way for encouraging people to pick up their hiring.
There may be other ideas that you guys have; I am happy to look at them and I'm happy to
embrace them. I suspect I will embrace some of them. Some of them I've already embraced.
But the question I think we're going to have to ask ourselves is, as we move forward, are we
going to be examining each of these issues based on what's good for the country, what the
evidence tells us, or are we going to be trying to position ourselves so that come November
we're able to say, "The other party, it's their fault." If we take the latter approach then we're
probably not going to get much agreement. If we take the former, I suspect there's going to
be a lot of overlap. All right?
Congressman Pence: Mr. President, will you consider supporting across-the-board tax
relief, as President Kennedy did?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Here's what I'm going to do, Mike. What I'm going to do is I'm going to
take a look at what you guys are proposing. And the reason I say this, before you say,
"Okay," I think is important to know -- what you may consider across-the-board tax cuts
could be, for example, greater tax cuts for people who are making a billion dollars. I may not
agree to a tax cut for Warren Buffet. You may be calling for an across-the-board tax cut for
the banking industry right now. I may not agree to that.
So I think that we've got to look at what specific proposals you're putting forward, and -- this
is the last point I'll make -- if you're calling for just across-the-board tax cuts, and then on the
other hand saying that we're somehow going to balance our budget, I'm going to want to take
a look at your math and see how that works, because the issue of deficit and debt is another
area where there has been a tendency for some inconsistent statements. How's that? All
right?
Congressman Ryan: Thank you. Mr. President, first off, thanks for agreeing to accept our
invitation here. It is a real pleasure and honor to have you with us here today.
President Obama: Good to see you. Is this your crew right here, by the way?
Congressman Ryan: It is. This is my daughter Liza, my son Charlie and Sam, and this is
my wife Janna.
President Obama: Hey, guys.
Congressman Ryan: Say hi, everybody. I serve as a ranking member of the budget
committee, so I'm going to talk a little budget if you don't mind. The spending bills that
you've signed into law, the domestic discretionary spending has been increased by 84
percent. You now want to freeze spending at this elevated beginning next year. This means
that total spending in your budget would grow at 3/100ths of 1 percent less than otherwise. I
would simply submit that we could do more and start now.
You've also said that you want to take a scalpel to the budget and go through it line by line.
We want to give you that scalpel. I have a proposal with my home state senator, Russ
Feingold, bipartisan proposal, to create a constitutional version of the line-item veto. Problem
is, we can't even get a vote on the proposal.
So my question is, why not start freezing spending now, and would you support a line-item
veto in helping us get a vote on it in the House?
President Obama: Let me respond to the two specific questions, but I want to just push
back a little bit on the underlying premise about us increasing spending by 84 percent.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, look, I talked to Peter Orszag right before I came here, because I suspected I'd be
hearing this -- I'd be hearing this argument. The fact of the matter is, is that most of the
increases in this year's budget, this past year's budget, were not as a consequence of policies
that we initiated but instead were built in as a consequence of the automatic stabilizers that
kick in because of this enormous recession.
So the increase in the budget for this past year was actually predicted before I was even
sworn into office and had initiated any policies. Whoever was in there, Paul -- and I don't
think you'll dispute that -- whoever was in there would have seen those same increases
because of, on the one hand, huge drops in revenue, but at the same time people were
hurting and needed help. And a lot of these things happened automatically.
Now, the reason that I'm not proposing the discretionary freeze take into effect this year -we prepared a budget for 2010, it's now going forward -- is, again, I am just listening to the
consensus among people who know the economy best. And what they will say is that if you
either increase taxes or significantly lowered spending when the economy remains somewhat
fragile, that that would have a destimulative effect and potentially you'd see a lot of folks
losing business, more folks potentially losing jobs. That would be a mistake when the
economy has not fully taken off. That's why I've proposed to do it for the next fiscal year. So
that's point number two.
With respect to the line-item veto, I actually -- I think there's not a President out there that
wouldn't love to have it. And I think that this is an area where we can have a serious
conversation. I know it is a bipartisan proposal by you and Russ Feingold. I don't like being
held up with big bills that have stuff in them that are wasteful but I've got to sign because it's
a defense authorization bill and I've got to make sure that our troops are getting the funding
that they need.
I will tell you, I would love for Congress itself to show discipline on both sides of the aisle. I
think one thing that you have to acknowledge, Paul, because you study this stuff and take it
pretty seriously, that the earmarks problem is not unique to one party and you end up getting
a lot of pushback when you start going after specific projects of any one of you in your
districts, because wasteful spending is usually spent somehow outside of your district. Have
you noticed that? The spending in your district tends to seem pretty sensible.
So I would love to see more restraint within Congress. I'd like to work on the earmarks
reforms that I mentioned in terms of putting earmarks online, because I think sunshine is the
best disinfectant. But I am willing to have a serious conversation on the line-item veto issue.
Congressman Ryan: I'd like to walk you through that, because we have a version we think
is constitutional.
President Obama: Let me take a look at it.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Congressman Ryan: I would simply say that automatic stabilizer spending is mandatory
spending. The discretionary spending, the bills that Congress signs that you sign into law,
that has increased 84 percent.
President Obama: We'll have a longer debate on the budget numbers, all right?
Congressman Pence: Shelley Moore Capito, West Virginia.
Congresswoman Capito: Thank you, Mr. President, for joining us here today. As you said
in the State of the Union address on Wednesday, jobs and the economy are number one. And
I think everyone in this room, certainly I, agree with you on that.
I represent the state of West Virginia. We're resource-rich. We have a lot of coal and a lot of
natural gas. But our -- my miners and the folks who are working and those who are
unemployed are very concerned about some of your policies in these areas: cap and trade,
an aggressive EPA, and the looming prospect of higher taxes. In our minds, these are jobkilling policies. So I'm asking you if you would be willing to re-look at some of these policies,
with a high unemployment and the unsure economy that we have now, to assure West
Virginians that you're listening.
President Obama: Look, I listen all the time, including to your governor, who's somebody
who I enjoyed working with a lot before the campaign and now that I'm President. And I
know that West Virginia struggles with unemployment, and I know how important coal is to
West Virginia and a lot of the natural resources there. That's part of the reason why I've said
that we need a comprehensive energy policy that sets us up for a long-term future.
For example, nobody has been a bigger promoter of clean coal technology than I am.
Testament to that, I ended up being in a whole bunch of advertisements that you guys saw all
the time about investing in ways for us to burn coal more cleanly.
I've said that I'm a promoter of nuclear energy, something that I think over the last three
decades has been subject to a lot of partisan wrangling and ideological wrangling. I don't
think it makes sense. I think that that has to be part of our energy mix. I've said that I am
supportive -- and I said this two nights ago at the State of the Union -- that I am in favor of
increased production.
So if you look at the ideas that this caucus has, again with respect to energy, I'm for a lot of
what you said you are for.
The one thing that I've also said, though, and here we have a serious disagreement and my
hope is we can work through these disagreements -- there's going to be an effort on the
Senate side to do so on a bipartisan basis -- is that we have to plan for the future.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
And the future is that clean energy -- cleaner forms of energy are going to be increasingly
important, because even if folks are still skeptical in some cases about climate change in our
politics and in Congress, the world is not skeptical about it. If we're going to be after some of
these big markets, they're going to be looking to see, is the United States the one that's
developing clean coal technology? Is the United States developing our natural gas resources
in the most effective way? Is the United States the one that is going to lead in electric cars?
Because if we're not leading, those other countries are going to be leading.
So what I want to do is work with West Virginia to figure out how we can seize that future.
But to do that, that means there's going to have to be some transition. We can't operate the
coal industry in the United States as if we're still in the 1920s or the 1930s or the 1950s.
We've got to be thinking what does that industry look like in the next hundred years. And it's
going to be different. And that means there's going to be some transition. And that's where I
think a well-thought-through policy of incentivizing the new while recognizing that there's
going to be a transition process -- and we're not just suddenly putting the old out of business
right away -- that has to be something that both Republicans and Democrats should be able
to embrace.
Congressman Pence: Jason Chaffetz, Utah.
Congressman Chafetz: Thank you, Mr. President. It's truly an honor.
President Obama: Great to be here.
Congressman Chafetz: And I appreciate you being here.
I'm one of 22 House freshmen. We didn't create this mess, but we are here to help clean it
up. You talked a lot about this deficit of trust. There's some things that have happened that I
would appreciate your perspective on, because I can look you in the eye and tell you we have
not been obstructionists. Democrats have the House and Senate and the presidency. And
when you stood up before the American people multiple times and said you would broadcast
the health care debates on C-SPAN, you didn't. And I was disappointed, and I think a lot of
Americans were disappointed.
You said you weren't going to allow lobbyists in the senior-most positions within your
administration, and yet you did. I applauded you when you said it -- and disappointed when
you didn't.
You said you'd go line by line through the health care debate -- or through the health care
bill. And there were six of us, including Dr. Phil Roe, who sent you a letter and said, "We
would like to take you up on the offer; we'd like to come." We never heard a letter, we never
got a call. We were never involved in any of those discussions.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
And when you said in the House of Representatives that you were going to tackle earmarks -in fact, you didn't want to have any earmarks in any of your bills -- I jumped up out of my
seat and applauded you. But it didn't happen.
More importantly, I want to talk about moving forward, but if we could address -President Obama: Well, how about -Congressman Chafetz: -- I would certainly appreciate it.
President Obama: That was a long list, so -- let me respond.
Look, the truth of the matter is that if you look at the health care process -- just over the
course of the year -- overwhelmingly the majority of it actually was on C-SPAN, because it
was taking place in congressional hearings in which you guys were participating. I mean, how
many committees were there that helped to shape this bill? Countless hearings took place.
Now, I kicked it off, by the way, with a meeting with many of you, including your key
leadership. What is true, there's no doubt about it, is that once it got through the committee
process and there were now a series of meetings taking place all over the Capitol trying to
figure out how to get the thing together -- that was a messy process. And I take
responsibility for not having structured it in a way where it was all taking place in one place
that could be filmed. How to do that logistically would not have been as easy as it sounds,
because you're shuttling back and forth between the House, the Senate, different offices, et
cetera, different legislators. But I think it's a legitimate criticism. So on that one, I take
responsibility.
With respect to earmarks, we didn't have earmarks in the Recovery Act. We didn't get a lot of
credit for it, but there were no earmarks in that. I was confronted at the beginning of my
term with an omnibus package that did have a lot of earmarks from Republicans and
Democrats, and a lot of people in this chamber. And the question was whether I was going to
have a big budget fight, at a time when I was still trying to figure out whether or not the
financial system was melting down and we had to make a whole bunch of emergency
decisions about the economy. So what I said was let's keep them to a minimum, but I
couldn't excise them all.
Now, the challenge I guess I would have for you as a freshman, is what are you doing inside
your caucus to make sure that I'm not the only guy who is responsible for this stuff, so that
we're working together, because this is going to be a process?
When we talk about earmarks, I think all of us are willing to acknowledge that some of them
are perfectly defensible, good projects; it's just they haven't gone through the regular
appropriations process in the full light of day. So one place to start is to make sure that they
are at least transparent, that everybody knows what's there before we move forward.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
In terms of lobbyists, I can stand here unequivocally and say that there has not been an
administration who was tougher on making sure that lobbyists weren't participating in the
administration than any administration that's come before us.
Now, what we did was, if there were lobbyists who were on boards and commissions that were
carryovers and their term hadn't been completed, we didn't kick them off. We simply said
that moving forward any time a new slot opens, they're being replaced.
So we've actually been very consistent in making sure that we are eliminating the impact of
lobbyists, day in, day out, on how this administration operates. There have been a handful of
waivers where somebody is highly skilled -- for example, a doctor who ran Tobacco-Free Kids
technically is a registered lobbyist; on the other end, has more experience than anybody in
figuring out how kids don't get hooked on cigarettes.
So there have been a couple of instances like that, but generally we've been very consistent
on that front.
Congressman Pence: Marsha Blackburn, Tennessee.
Congresswoman Blackburn: Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for acknowledging
that we have ideas on health care because, indeed, we do have ideas, we have plans, we have
over 50 bills, we have lots of amendments that would bring health care ideas to the forefront.
We would -- we've got plans to lower cost, to change purchasing models, address medical
liability, insurance accountability, chronic and preexisting conditions, and access to affordable
care for those with those conditions, insurance portability, expanded access -- but not doing it
with creating more government, more bureaucracy, and more cost for the American taxpayer.
And we look forward to sharing those ideas with you. We want to work with you on health
reform and making certain that we do it in an affordable, cost-effective way that is going to
reduce bureaucracy, reduce government interference, and reduce costs to individuals and to
taxpayers. And if those good ideas aren't making it to you, maybe it's the House Democrat
leadership that is an impediment instead of a conduit.
But we're concerned also that there are some lessons learned from public option health care
plans that maybe are not being heeded. And certainly in my state of Tennessee, we were the
test case for public option health care in 1994, and our Democrat government has even
cautioned that maybe our experiences there would provide some lessons learned that should
be heeded, and would provide guidance for us to go forward. And as you said, what we
should be doing is tossing old ideas out, bad ideas out, and moving forward in refining good
ideas. And certainly we would welcome that opportunity.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
So my question to you is, when will we look forward to starting anew and sitting down with
you to put all of these ideas on the table, to look at these lessons learned, to benefit from that
experience, and to produce a product that is going to reduce government interference, reduce
cost, and be fair to the American taxpayer?
President Obama: Actually, I've gotten many of your ideas. I've taken a look at them, even
before I was handed this. Some of the ideas we have embraced in our package. Some of
them are embraced with caveats. So let me give you an example.
I think one of the proposals that has been focused on by the Republicans as a way to reduce
costs is allowing insurance companies to sell across state lines. We actually include that as
part of our approach. But the caveat is, we've got to do so with some minimum standards,
because otherwise what happens is that you could have insurance companies circumvent a
whole bunch of state regulations about basic benefits or what have you, making sure that a
woman is able to get mammograms as part of preventive care, for example. Part of what
could happen is insurance companies could go into states and cherry-pick and just get those
who are healthiest and leave behind those who are least healthy, which would raise
everybody's premiums who weren't healthy, right?
So it's not that many of these ideas aren't workable, but we have to refine them to make sure
that they don't just end up worsening the situation for folks rather than making it better.
Now, what I said at the State of the Union is what I still believe: If you can show me -- and if
I get confirmation from health care experts, people who know the system and how it works,
including doctors and nurses -- ways of reducing people's premiums; covering those who do
not have insurance; making it more affordable for small businesses; having insurance reforms
that ensure people have insurance even when they've got preexisting conditions, that their
coverage is not dropped just because they're sick, that young people right out of college or as
they're entering in the workforce can still get health insurance -- if those component parts are
things that you care about and want to do, I'm game. And I've got -- and I've got a lot of
these ideas.
The last thing I will say, though -- let me say this about health care and the health care
debate, because I think it also bears on a whole lot of other issues. If you look at the package
that we've presented -- and there's some stray cats and dogs that got in there that we were
eliminating, we were in the process of eliminating. For example, we said from the start that it
was going to be important for us to be consistent in saying to people if you can have your -- if
you want to keep the health insurance you got, you can keep it, that you're not going to have
anybody getting in between you and your doctor in your decision making. And I think that
some of the provisions that got snuck in might have violated that pledge.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so we were in the process of scrubbing this and making sure that it's tight. But at its
core, if you look at the basic proposal that we've put forward: it has an exchange so that
businesses and the self-employed can buy into a pool and can get bargaining power the same
way big companies do; the insurance reforms that I've already discussed, making sure that
there's choice and competition for those who don't have health insurance. The component
parts of this thing are pretty similar to what Howard Baker, Bob Dole, and Tom Daschle
proposed at the beginning of this debate last year.
Now, you may not agree with Bob Dole and Howard Baker, and, certainly you don't agree with
Tom Daschle on much, but that's not a radical bunch. But if you were to listen to the debate
and, frankly, how some of you went after this bill, you'd think that this thing was some
Bolshevik plot. No, I mean, that's how you guys -- that's how you guys presented it.
And so I'm thinking to myself, well, how is it that a plan that is pretty centrist -- no, look, I
mean, I'm just saying, I know you guys disagree, but if you look at the facts of this bill, most
independent observers would say this is actually what many Republicans -- is similar to what
many Republicans proposed to Bill Clinton when he was doing his debate on health care.
So all I'm saying is, we've got to close the gap a little bit between the rhetoric and the reality.
I'm not suggesting that we're going to agree on everything, whether it's on health care or
energy or what have you, but if the way these issues are being presented by the Republicans
is that this is some wild-eyed plot to impose huge government in every aspect of our lives,
what happens is you guys then don't have a lot of room to negotiate with me.
I mean, the fact of the matter is, is that many of you, if you voted with the administration on
something, are politically vulnerable in your own base, in your own party. You've given
yourselves very little room to work in a bipartisan fashion because what you've been telling
your constituents is, this guy is doing all kinds of crazy stuff that's going to destroy America.
And I would just say that we have to think about tone. It's not just on your side, by the way - it's on our side, as well. This is part of what's happened in our politics, where we demonize
the other side so much that when it comes to actually getting things done, it becomes tough
to do.
Mike [Pence].
Congressman Pence: Dr. Tom Price from Georgia, and then we'll have one more after that
if your time permits, Mr. President.
President Obama: You know, I'm having fun.
Congressman Pence: Okay.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 17

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: This is great.
Congressman Pence: So are we.
Congressman Price: Mr. President, thank you. I want to stick on the general topic of health
care, but ask a very specific question. You have repeatedly said, most recently at the State of
the Union, that Republicans have offered no ideas and no solutions. In spite of the fact -President Obama: I don't think I said that. What I said was, within the context of health
care -- I remember that speech pretty well, it was only two days ago -- I said I welcome ideas
that you might provide. I didn't say that you haven't provided ideas. I said I welcome those
ideas that you'll provide.
Congressman Price: Mr. President, multiple times, from your administration, there have
come statements that Republicans have no ideas and no solutions. In spite of the fact that
we've offered, as demonstrated today, positive solutions to all of the challenges we face,
including energy and the economy and health care, specifically in the area of health care -this bill, H.R.3400, that has more co-sponsors than any health care bill in the House, is a bill
that would provide health coverage for all Americans; would correct the significant insurance
challenges of affordability and preexisting; would solve the lawsuit abuse issue, which isn't
addressed significantly in the other proposals that went through the House and the Senate;
would write into law that medical decisions are made between patients and families and
doctors; and does all of that without raising taxes by a penny.
But my specific question is, what should we tell our constituents who know that Republicans
have offered positive solutions to the challenges that Americans face and yet continue to hear
out of the administration that we've offered nothing?
President Obama: Tom, look, I have to say that on the -- let's just take the health care
debate. And it's probably not constructive for us to try to debate a particular bill -- this isn't
the venue to do it. But if you say, "We can offer coverage for all Americans, and it won't cost
a penny," that's just not true. You can't structure a bill where suddenly 30 million people
have coverage, and it costs nothing. If -Congressman Price: Mr. President, can I -- and I understand that we're not interested in
debating this bill, but what should we tell our constituents who know that we've offered these
solutions and yet hear from the administration that we have offered nothing.
President Obama: Let me -- I'm using this as a specific example, so let me answer your
question. You asked a question; I want to answer it.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 18

AmericanRhetoric.com
It's not enough if you say, for example, that we've offered a health care plan and I look up -this is just under the section that you've just provided me, or the book that you just provided
me -- summary of GOP health care reform bill: The GOP plan will lower health care premiums
for American families and small businesses, addressing America's number-one priority for
health reform. I mean, that's an idea that we all embrace. But specifically it's got to work. I
mean, there's got to be a mechanism in these plans that I can go to an independent health
care expert and say, is this something that will actually work, or is it boilerplate?
If I'm told, for example, that the solution to dealing with health care costs is tort reform,
something that I've said I am willing to work with you on, but the CBO or other experts say to
me, at best, this could reduce health care costs relative to where they're growing by a couple
of percentage points, or save $5 billion a year, that's what we can score it at, and it will not
bend the cost curve long term or reduce premiums significantly -- then you can't make the
claim that that's the only thing that we have to do. If we're going to do multi-state insurance
so that people can go across state lines, I've got to be able to go to an independent health
care expert, Republican or Democrat, who can tell me that this won't result in cherry-picking
of the healthiest going to some and the least healthy being worse off.
So I am absolutely committed to working with you on these issues, but it can't just be political
assertions that aren't substantiated when it comes to the actual details of policy. Because
otherwise, we're going to be selling the American people a bill of goods. I mean, the easiest
thing for me to do on the health care debate would have been to tell people that what you're
going to get is guaranteed health insurance, lower your costs, all the insurance reforms; we're
going to lower the costs of Medicare and Medicaid and it won't cost anybody anything. That's
great politics, it's just not true.
So there's got to be some test of realism in any of these proposals, mine included. I've got to
hold myself accountable, and guaranteed the American people will hold themselves -- will hold
me accountable if what I'm selling doesn't actually deliver.
Congressman Price: Mr. President, a point of clarification, what's in the Better Solutions
book are all the legislative proposals that were offered -President Obama: I understand that. I've actually read your bills.
Congressman Price: -- throughout 2009.
President Obama: I understand.
Congressman Price: And so, rest assured the summary document you received is backed
up by precisely the kind of detailed legislation that Speaker Pelosi and your administration
have been busy ignoring for 12 months.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 19

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, Mike -- well, hold on, hold on a second. No, no, no, no. Hold on a
second, guys.
You know, Mike, I've read your legislation. I mean, I take a look at this stuff -- and the good
ideas we take. But here's -- here's the thing -- here's the thing that I guess all of us have to
be mindful of, it can't be all or nothing, one way or the other. And what I mean by that is
this: If we put together a stimulus package in which a third of it are tax cuts that normally
you guys would support, and support for states and the unemployed, and helping people stay
on COBRA that your governors certainly would support -- Democrat or a Republican; and then
you've got some infrastructure, and maybe there's some things in there that you don’t like in
terms of infrastructure, or you think the bill should have been $500 billion instead of $700
billion or there's this provision or that provision that you don't like. If there's uniform
opposition because the Republican caucus doesn't get 100 percent or 80 percent of what you
want, then it's going to be hard to get a deal done. That's because that's not how democracy
works.
So my hope would be that we can look at some of these component parts of what we're doing
and maybe we break some of them up on different policy issues. So if the good congressman
from Utah has a particular issue on lobbying reform that he wants to work with us on, we may
not able to agree on a comprehensive package on everything but there may be some
component parts that we can work on.
You may not support our overall jobs package, but if you look at the tax credit that we're
proposing for small businesses right now, it is consistent with a lot of what you guys have said
in the past. And just the fact that it's my administration that's proposing it shouldn't prevent
you from supporting it. That's my point.
Congressman Pence: Thank you, Mr. President. Peter Roskam from the great state of
Illinois.
President Obama: Oh, Peter is an old friend of mine.
Congressman Roskam: Hey, Mr. President.
President Obama: Peter and I have had many debates.
Congressman Roskam: Well, this won't be one. Mr. President, I heard echoes today of the
state senator that I served with in Springfield and there was an attribute and a characteristic
that you had that I think served you well there. You took on some very controversial subjects
-- death penalty reform -- you and I -President Obama: Sure. We worked on it together.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 20

AmericanRhetoric.com
Congressman Roskam: -- negotiated on. You took on ethics reform. You took on some big
things. One of the keys was you rolled your sleeves up, you worked with the other party, and
ultimately you were able to make the deal. Now, here's an observation.
Over the past year, in my view, that attribute hasn't been in full bloom. And by that I mean,
you've gotten this subtext of House Republicans that sincerely want to come and be a part of
this national conversation toward solutions, but they've really been stiff-armed by Speaker
Pelosi. Now, I know you're not in charge of that chamber, but there really is this dynamic of,
frankly, being shut out. When John Boehner and Eric Cantor presented last February to you
some substantive job creation, our stimulus alternative, the attack machine began to
marginalize Eric -- and we can all look at the articles -- as "Mr. No," and there was this pretty
dark story, ultimately, that wasn't productive and wasn't within this sort of framework that
you're articulating today.
So here's the question. Moving forward, I think all of us want to hit the reset button on
2009. How do we move forward? And on the job creation piece in particular, you mentioned
Colombia, you mentioned Panama, you mentioned South Korea. Are you willing to work with
us, for example, to make sure those FTAs get called, that's no-cost job creation? And
ultimately, as you're interacting with world leaders, that's got to put more arrows in your
quiver, and that's a very, very powerful tool for us. But the obstacle is, frankly, the politics
within the Democratic caucus?
President Obama: Well, first of all, Peter and I did work together effectively on a whole host
of issues. One of our former colleagues is right now running for governor, on the Republican
side, in Illinois. In the Republican primary, of course, they're running ads of him saying nice
things about me. Poor guy.
Although that's one of the points that I made earlier. I mean, we've got to be careful about
what we say about each other sometimes, because it boxes us in in ways that makes it
difficult for us to work together, because our constituents start believing us. They don't know
sometimes this is just politics what you guys -- or folks on my side do sometimes.
So just a tone of civility instead of slash and burn would be helpful. The problem we have
sometimes is a media that responds only to slash-and-burn-style politics. You don't get a lot
of credit if I say, "You know, I think Paul Ryan is a pretty sincere guy and has a beautiful
family." Nobody is going to run that in the newspapers.
Question: [Inaudible]
President Obama: And by the way, in case he's going to get a Republican challenge, I didn't
mean it. Don't want to hurt you, man.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 21

AmericanRhetoric.com
But on the specifics, I think both sides can take some blame for a sour climate on Capitol Hill.
What I can do maybe to help is to try to bring Republican and Democratic leadership together
on a more regular basis with me. That's, I think, a failure on my part, is to try to foster better
communications even if there's disagreement. And I will try to see if we can do more of that
this year. That's on the sort of the general issue.
On the specific issue of trade, you're right, there are conflicts within and fissures within the
Democratic Party. I suspect there are probably going to be some fissures within the
Republican Party, as well. I mean, you know, if you went to some of your constituencies,
they'd be pretty suspicious about it, new trade agreements, because the suspicion is somehow
they're all one way.
So part of what we've been trying to do is to make sure that we're getting the enforcement
side of this tight, make sure that if we've got a trade agreement with China or other countries,
that they are abiding with it -- they're not stealing our intellectual property or making sure
that their non-tariff barriers are lowered even as ours are opened up. And my hope is, is that
we can move forward with some of these trade agreements having built some confidence -not just among particular constituency groups, but among the American people -- that trade is
going to be reciprocal; that it's not just going to be a one-way street.
You are absolutely right though, Peter, when you say, for example, South Korea is a great ally
of ours. I mean, when I visited there, there is no country that is more committed to
friendship on a whole range of fronts than South Korea. What is also true is that the
European Union is about to sign a trade agreement with South Korea, which means right at
the moment when they start opening up their markets, the Europeans might get in there
before we do.
So we've got to make sure that we seize these opportunities. I will be talking more about
trade this year. It's going to have to be trade that combines opening their markets with an
enforcement mechanism, as well as just opening up our markets. I think that's something
that all of us would agree on. Let's see if we can execute it over the next several years. All
right, is that it?
Congressman Pence: Jeb Hensarling, Texas. And that will be it, Mr. President.
President Obama: Jim [sic] is going to wrap things up?
Congressman Pence: Yes, sir.
President Obama: All right.
Congressman Hensarling: Jeb, Mr. President.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 22

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: How are you?
Congressman Hensarling: I'm doing well. Mr. President, a year ago I had an opportunity
to speak to you about the national debt. And something that you and I have in common is we
both have small children.
President Obama: Absolutely.
Congressman Hensarling: And I left that conversation really feeling your sincere
commitment to ensuring that our children, our nation's children, do not inherit an
unconscionable debt. We know that under current law, that government -- the cost of
government is due to grow from 20 percent of our economy to 40 percent of our economy,
right about the time our children are leaving college and getting that first job.
Mr. President, shortly after that conversation a year ago, the Republicans proposed a budget
that ensured that government did not grow beyond the historical standard of 20 percent of
GDP. It was a budget that actually froze immediately non-defense discretionary spending. It
spent $5 trillion less than ultimately what was enacted into law, and unfortunately, I believe
that budget was ignored. And since that budget was ignored, what were the old annual
deficits under Republicans have now become the monthly deficits under Democrats. The
national debt has increased 30 percent.
Now, Mr. President, I know you believe -- and I understand the argument, and I respect the
view that the spending is necessary due to the recession; many of us believe, frankly, it's part
of the problem, not part of the solution. But I understand and I respect your view. But this is
what I don't understand, Mr. President. After that discussion, your administration proposed a
budget that would triple the national debt over the next 10 years -- surely you don't believe
10 years from now we will still be mired in this recession -- and propose new entitlement
spending and move the cost of government to almost 24.5 percent of the economy.
Now, very soon, Mr. President, you're due to submit a new budget. And my question is -President Obama: Jeb, I know there's a question in there somewhere, because you're
making a whole bunch of assertions, half of which I disagree with, and I'm having to sit here
listening to them. At some point I know you're going to let me answer. All right.
Congressman Hensarling: That's the question. You are soon to submit a new budget, Mr.
President. Will that new budget, like your old budget, triple the national debt and continue to
take us down the path of increasing the cost of government to almost 25 percent of our
economy? That's the question, Mr. President.
President Obama: Jeb, with all due respect, I've just got to take this last question as an
example of how it's very hard to have the kind of bipartisan work that we're going to do,
because the whole question was structured as a talking point for running a campaign.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 23

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, look, let's talk about the budget once again, because I'll go through it with you line by
line. The fact of the matter is, is that when we came into office, the deficit was $1.3 trillion -$1.3 [trillion.] So when you say that suddenly I've got a monthly budget that is higher than
the -- a monthly deficit that's higher than the annual deficit left by the Republicans, that's
factually just not true, and you know it's not true.
And what is true is that we came in already with a $1.3 trillion deficit before I had passed any
law. What is true is we came in with $8 trillion worth of debt over the next decade -- had
nothing to do with anything that we had done. It had to do with the fact that in 2000 when
there was a budget surplus of $200 billion, you had a Republican administration and a
Republican Congress, and we had two tax cuts that weren't paid for.
You had a prescription drug plan -- the biggest entitlement plan, by the way, in several
decades -- that was passed without it being paid for. You had two wars that were done
through supplementals. And then you had $3 trillion projected because of the lost revenue of
this recession. That's $8 trillion.
Now, we increased it by a trillion dollars because of the spending that we had to make on the
stimulus. I am happy to have any independent fact-checker out there take a look at your
presentation versus mine in terms of the accuracy of what I just said.
Now, going forward, here's the deal. I think, Paul, for example, head of the budget
committee, has looked at the budget and has made a serious proposal. I've read it. I can tell
you what's in it. And there are some ideas in there that I would agree with, but there are
some ideas that we should have a healthy debate about because I don't agree with them.
The major driver of our long-term liabilities, everybody here knows, is Medicare and Medicaid
and our health care spending. Nothing comes close. Social Security we could probably fix the
same way Tip O'Neill and Ronald Reagan sat down together and they could figure something
out. That is manageable. Medicare and Medicaid -- massive problem down the road. That's
where -- that's going to be what our children have to worry about.
Now, Paul's approach -- and I want to be careful not simplifying this, because I know you've
got a lot of detail in your plan -- but if I understand it correctly, would say we're going to
provide vouchers of some sort for current Medicare recipients at the current level -Congressman Ryan: No.
President Obama: No?
Congressman Ryan: People 55 and above --

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 24

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Fifty-five and -- well, no, I understand. I mean, there's a grandfathering
in, but just for future beneficiaries, right? That's why I said I didn't want to -- I want to make
sure that I'm not being unfair to your proposal, but I just want to point out that I've read it.
And the basic idea would be that at some point we hold Medicare cost per recipient constant
as a way of making sure that that doesn't go way out of whack, and I'm sure there are some
details that -Congressman Ryan: We drew it as a blend of inflation and health inflation, the point of our
plan is -- because Medicare, as you know, is a $38 trillion unfunded liability -- it has to be
reform for younger generations because it won't exist because it's going bankrupt. And the
premise of our idea is, look, why not give people the same kind of health care plan we here
have in Congress? That's the kind of reform we're proposing for Medicare.
President Obama: No, I understand. Right, right. Well, look, as I said before, this is an
entirely legitimate proposal. The problem is twofold: One is that depending on how it's
structured, if recipients are suddenly getting a plan that has their reimbursement rates going
like this, but health care costs are still going up like that, then over time the way we're saving
money is essentially by capping what they're getting relative to their costs.
Now, I just want to point out -- and this brings me to the second problem -- when we made a
very modest proposal as part of our package, our health care reform package, to eliminate the
subsidies going to insurance companies for Medicare Advantage, we were attacked across the
board, by many on your aisle, for slashing Medicare. You remember? We're going to start
cutting benefits for seniors. That was the story that was perpetrated out there -- scared the
dickens out of a lot of seniors.
No, no, but here's my point. If the main question is going to be what do we do about
Medicare costs, any proposal that Paul makes will be painted, factually, from the perspective
of those who disagree with it, as cutting benefits over the long term. Paul, I don't think you
disagree with that, that there is a political vulnerability to doing anything that tinkers with
Medicare. And that's probably the biggest savings that are obtained through Paul's plan.
And I raise that not because we shouldn't have a series discussion about it. I raise that
because we're not going to be able to do anything about any of these entitlements if what we
do is characterized, whatever proposals are put out there, as, well, you know, that's -- the
other party is being irresponsible; the other party is trying to hurt our senior citizens; that the
other party is doing X, Y, Z.
That's why I say if we're going to frame these debates in ways that allow us to solve them,
then we can't start off by figuring out, A, who's to blame; B, how can we make the American
people afraid of the other side. And unfortunately, that's how our politics works right now.
And that's how a lot of our discussion works. That's how we start off -- every time somebody
speaks in Congress, the first thing they do, they stand up and all the talking points -- I see
Frank Luntz up here sitting in the front.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 25

AmericanRhetoric.com
He's already polled it, and he said, you know, the way you're really going to -- I've done a
focus group and the way we're going to really box in Obama on this one or make Pelosi look
bad on that one -- I know, I like Frank, we've had conversations between Frank and I. But
that's how we operate. It's all tactics, and it's not solving problems.
And so the question is, at what point can we have a serious conversation about Medicare and
its long-term liability, or a serious question about -- a serious conversation about Social
Security, or a serious conversation about budget and debt in which we're not simply trying to
position ourselves politically. That's what I'm committed to doing. We won't agree all the
time in getting it done, but I'm committed to doing it.
Congressman Pence: Take one more?
President Obama: You know, I've already gone over time. But I'll be happy to take your
question, Congressman, offline. You can give me a call. All right, thank you, everybody. God
bless you. God bless the United States of America. Thank you, everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 26
</doc>
<doc id="file32329699" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Graduation_Initiative.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Graduation%20Initiative.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
American Graduation Initiative Address

Delivered 14 July 2009, Macomb Community College, Warren, Michigan

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, Michigan! Thank you. Thank you so much. First of all, give Joe a big round of applause
for the wonderful introduction. We've got some special guests here -- now, if everybody has
chairs, go ahead and use them. Feel free. We've got some special guests here today that I
just want to acknowledge. All of you are special, but these folks I want to make sure that you
have a chance to see them.
First of all, one of the best governors in the country, please give Jennifer Granholm a big
round of applause. Lieutenant Governor John Cherry -- give John a big round of applause.
One of my favorite people, a former colleague of mine, still just a fighter on behalf of working
families each and every day -- Senator Debbie Stabenow. We've got Speaker of the House,
Andy Dillon, in the house. We've got a lot of other local elected officials, and I just want to
thank them.
A couple of people who are missing: Carl Levin, who is doing great work. He's in the Senate
right now fighting on behalf of a bill to make sure that we're not loading up a bunch of
necessary defense spending with unnecessary defense spending. So he's the point person on
it. The only reason he's not here is because he is working alongside the administration to get
this bill done. Please give him a big round of applause. Congressman Sandy Levin, also
working hard on your behalf each and every day, but is not here today. I want to go ahead
and acknowledge the new mayor, since he's the new mayor -- Mayor Dave Bing, great ball
player. My game is a little like Dave Bing's -- except I don't have the jump shot or the speed
or the ball handling skills -- or the endurance. Also don't have the afro. Don't think I forgot
that, Dave. I remember. I remember that.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I also want to acknowledge that we've got the Executive Director of the White House Council
on Auto Communities and Workers, who's working hard, has a direct line to me each and
every day. He's traveling constantly back here -- Ed Montgomery. Please give Ed a big round
of applause.
And the Chairman of the Grand Traverse Band of Ottawa and Chippewa Indian Tribe, Derek
Bailey is here. Please give Derek a big round of applause.
And finally, the president of the college where we are here, Jim Jacobs. Give Jim Jacobs a big
round of applause.
And those of you who I've missed, you know how grateful I am that you're here. And thank
you all. It is wonderful to be back at Macomb. It was terrific visiting this campus as a
candidate, but I have to admit, it's even better visiting as a President.
Now, this is a place where anyone -- anyone with a desire to learn and to grow, to take their
career to a new level or start a new career altogether -- has the opportunity to pursue their
dream, right here in Macomb. This is a place where people of all ages and all backgrounds -even in the face of obstacles, even in the face of very difficult personal challenges -- can take
a chance on a brighter future for themselves and their families.
There are folks like Joe, who just told us his story. When Joe lost his job, he decided to take
advantage of assistance for displaced workers. He earned his associate degree here at
Macomb, and with a pretty impressive GPA, I might add. And with the help of that degree,
Joe found a new job, working for the new Henry Ford West Bloomfield Hospital as a
maintenance mechanic, using the skills he learned here and the talents that he brought to
make a fresh start.
There are workers like Kellie Kulman, who is here today. Where's Kellie? Raise your hand,
Kellie. Where are you? There you are. There's Kellie right there. Kellie is a UAW worker at a
Ford plant in Sterling Heights, Michigan. She used to drive a fork lift, right? But then she
decided to train here at Macomb for a job that required new skills, and now she's an
apprentice pipe fitter. It's a telling example: Even as this painful restructuring takes place in
our auto industry, workers are seeking out training for new auto jobs. And Joe and Kellie's
story make clear what all of you know: Community colleges are an essential part of our
recovery in the present -- and our prosperity in the future. This place can make the future
better, not just for these individuals but for America.
Now, since this recession began 20 months ago, 6.5 million Americans have lost their jobs,
and I don't have to tell you Michigan in particular has been hard-hit. Now, I -- the statistics
are daunting. The whole country now, the unemployment rate is approaching 10 percent.
Here in Michigan, it's about five points higher. And new jobs of course are going to be coming
out and we're going to see continuing job loss even as the economy is beginning to stabilize.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, that's not just abstractions. Those just aren't numbers on a page. Those are
extraordinary hardships, tough times, for families and individuals who've worked hard all their
lives and have done the right things all their lives. If you haven't lost a job, chances are you
know somebody who has: a family member, a neighbor, a friend, a coworker. And you know
that as difficult as the financial struggle can be, the sense of loss is about more than just a
paycheck, because most of us define ourselves by the work we do. That's part of what it
means to be an American. We take pride in work -- that sense that you're contributing,
supporting your family, meeting your responsibilities. People need work not just for income,
but because it makes you part of that fabric of a community that's so important. And so when
you lose your job, and when entire communities are losing thousands of jobs, that's a heavy
burden, that's a heavy weight.
Now, my administration has a job to do, as well, and that job is to get this economy back on
its feet. That's my job. And it's a job I gladly accept. I love these folks who helped get us in
this mess and then suddenly say, well, this is Obama's economy. That's fine. Give it to me.
My job is to solve problems, not to stand on the sidelines and harp and gripe.
So I welcome the job. I want the responsibility. And I know that -- let's just take an
example. Many questioned our efforts to help save GM and Chrysler from collapse earlier this
year. Their feeling was these companies were driven to the brink by poor management
decisions over a long period of time, and like any business they should be held accountable for
those decisions. I agree that they should be held accountable. But I also recognize the
historic significance and economic prominence of these companies in communities all across
Michigan and all across the country.
I thought about the hundreds of thousands of Americans whose livelihoods are still connected
to the American auto industry, and the impact on an already struggling economy, especially
right here in Michigan. So I said that if Chrysler and GM were willing to fundamentally
restructure their businesses and make the hard choices necessary to become competitive now
and in the future, it was a process worth supporting.
Now today, after a painful period of soul-searching and sacrifice, both GM and Chrysler have
emerged from bankruptcy. Remember, folks said there was no way they could do it? They've
gotten it done already, in record time -- far faster than anybody thought possible. They've
got a leaner structure, they've got new management, and a viable vision of how to compete
and win in the 21st century. Those sacrifices were shared among all the stakeholders:
workers and management; creditors and shareholders; retirees and communities. And
together, they've made the rebirth of Chrysler and GM possible.
It was the right thing to do.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But even with this positive news, the hard truth is, is that some of the jobs that have been
lost in the auto industry and elsewhere won't be coming back. They're the casualties of a
changing economy. In some cases, just increased productivity in the plants themselves
means that some jobs aren't going to return. And that only underscores the importance of
generating new businesses and new industries to replace the ones that we've lost, and of
preparing our workers to fill the jobs they create. For even before this recession hit, we were
faced with an economy that was simply not creating or sustaining enough new, well-paying
jobs.
So now is the time to change all that. What we face is far more than a passing crisis. This is
a transformative moment. And in this moment we must do what other generations have
done. It's not the time to shrink from the challenges we face or put off tough decisions.
That's what Washington has done for decades, and it's exactly why I ran for President -- to
change that mindset. Now is the time to build a firmer, stronger foundation for growth that
will not only withstand future economic storms, but that will help us thrive and compete in a
global economy. To build that foundation, we have to slow the growth of health care costs
that are driving us into debt. We're going to have to do that, and there's going to be a major
debate over the next three weeks. And don't be fooled by folks trying to scare you, saying we
can't change the health care system. We have no choice but to change the health care
system, because right now it's broken for too many Americans.
We're going to have to make tough choices necessary to bring down deficits. But don't let
folks fool you -- the best way to start bringing down deficits is to get control of our health care
costs, which is why we need reform.
Now is the time to create the jobs of the future by growing industries, including a new clean
energy economy. And Jennifer Granholm has been all on top of this as the governor of
Michigan. She is bring cleaning [sic] energy jobs right here to Michigan, and we've got to
support her in that effort.
I want Michigan to build windmills and wind turbines and solar panels and biofuel plants and
energy-efficient light bulbs and weatherize all our -- because, Michigan, you know bad
weather. So you can be all on top of weatherizing. You need to weatherize. I know about
that in Chicago too.
But we also have to ensure that we're educating and preparing our people for the new jobs of
the 21st century. We've got to prepare our people with the skills they need to compete in this
global economy. Time and again, when we placed our bet for the future on education, we
have prospered as a result -- by tapping the incredible innovative and generative potential of
a skilled American workforce. That's what happened when President Lincoln signed into law
legislation creating the land grant colleges, which not only transformed higher education, but
also our entire economy. That's what took place when President Roosevelt signed the GI Bill
which helped educate a generation, and ushered in an era of unprecedented prosperity. That
was the foundation for the American middle class.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why, at the start of my administration I set a goal for America: By 2020, this
nation will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. We used
to have that. We're going to have it again. And we've begun to take historic steps to achieve
this goal. Already we've increased Pell grants by $500. We've created a $2,500 tax credit for
four years of college tuition. We've simplified student aid applications and ensured that aid is
not based on the income of a job that you just lost. A new GI Bill of Rights for the 21st
century is beginning to help soldiers coming home from Iraq and Afghanistan to begin a new
life -- in a new economy. And the recovery plan has helped close state budget shortfalls -which put enormous pressure on public universities and community colleges -- at the same
time making historic investments in school libraries and classrooms and facilities all across
America. So we've already taken some steps that are building the foundation for a 21st
century education system here in America, one that will allow us to compete with China and
India and everybody else all around the world.
But today I'm announcing the most significant down payment yet on reaching the goal of
having the highest college graduation rate of any nation in the world. We're going to achieve
this in the next 10 years. And it's called the American Graduation Initiative. It will reform
and strengthen community colleges like this one from coast to coast so they get the resources
that students and schools need -- and the results workers and businesses demand. Through
this plan, we seek to help an additional 5 million Americans earn degrees and certificates in
the next decade -- 5 million.
Not since the passage of the original GI Bill and the work of President Truman's Commission
on Higher Education -- which helped to double the number of community colleges and
increase by seven-fold enrollment in those colleges -- have we taken such a historic step on
behalf of community colleges in America. And let me be clear: We pay for this plan -- this
isn't adding to the deficit; we're paying for this plan -- by ending the wasteful subsidies we
currently provide to banks and private lenders for student loans. That will save tens of billions
of dollars over the next 10 years. Instead of lining the pockets of special interests, it's time
this money went towards the interests of higher education in America. That's what my
administration is committed to doing.
Now, I know that for a long time there have been politicians who have spoken of training as a
silver bullet and college as a cure-all. It's not, and we know that. I can't tell you how many
workers who've been laid off, you talk to them about training and they say, "Training for
what?" So I understand the frustrations that a lot of people have, especially if the training is
not well designed for the specific jobs that are being created out there.
But we know that in the coming years, jobs requiring at least an associate degree are
projected to grow twice as fast as jobs requiring no college experience. We will not fill those
jobs -- or even keep those jobs here in America -- without the training offered by community
colleges. That's why I want to applaud Governor Granholm for the No Worker Left Behind
program. It's providing up to two years' worth of free tuition at community colleges and
universities across the state. The rest of the country should learn from the effort.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is training to become a medical technician, or a health IT worker, or a lab specialist, or a
nurse. In fact, 59 percent of all new nurses come from community colleges. This is training
to install solar panels and build those wind turbines we were talking about and develop a
smarter electricity grid. And this is the kind of education that more and more Americans are
using to improve their skills and broaden their horizons. Many young people are saving
money by spending two years at community college before heading to a four-year college.
And more workers who have lost their jobs -- or fear losing a job -- are seeking an edge at
schools like this one.
At the same time, community colleges are under increasing pressure to cap enrollments and
scrap courses and cut costs as states and municipalities face budget shortfalls. And this is in
addition to the challenges you face in the best of times, as these schools receive far less
funding per student than typical four-year colleges and universities. So community colleges
are an undervalued asset in our country. Not only is that not right, it's not smart. That's why
I've asked Dr. Jill Biden -- who happens to be a relation of the Vice President, Joe Biden, but
who is also a community college educator for more than 16 years -- to promote community
colleges and help us make community colleges stronger. And that's why we're putting in
place this American Graduation Initiative.
Let me describe for you the specifics of what we're going to do. Number one, we will offer
competitive grants, challenging community colleges to pursue innovative, results-oriented
strategies in exchange for federal funding. We'll fund programs that connect students looking
for jobs with businesses that are looking to hire. We'll challenge these schools to find new
and better ways to help students catch up on the basics, like math and science, that are
essential to our competitiveness. We'll put colleges and employers together to create
programs that match curricula in the classroom with the needs of the boardroom.
These are all kinds of -- there are all kinds of examples of what's possible. We've seen Cisco,
for example, working with community colleges to prepare students and workers for jobs
ranging from work in broadband to health IT. We know that the most successful community
colleges are those that partner with the private sector. So we want to encourage more
companies to work with schools to build these type of relationships. That way, when
somebody goes through a training program, they know that there's a job at the end of that
training.
We'll also create a new research center with a simple mission: to measure what works and
what doesn't. All too often, we don't know what happens when somebody walks out of a
classroom and onto the factory floor or into the library or -- the laboratory or the office. And
that means businesses often can't be sure what a degree is really worth. And schools
themselves don't have the facts to make informed choices about which programs receive -achieve results and which programs don't. And this is important, not just for businesses and
colleges, but for students and workers, as well. If a parent is going to spend time in the
classroom and away from his or her family -- especially after a long day at work -- that
degree really has to mean something.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
They have to know that when they get that degree, this is going to help advance their goals.
If a worker is going to spend two years training to enter into a whole new profession, that
certificate has to mean that he or she is ready, and that businesses are ready to hire.
In addition, we want to propose new funding for innovative strategies that promote not just
enrollment in a community college program, but completion of that program. See, more than
half -- more than half of all students who enter community college to earn an associate
degree, or transfer to a four-year school to earn a bachelor's degree, unfortunately fail to
reach their goal. That's not just a waste of a valuable resource, that's a tragedy for these
students. Oftentimes they've taken out debt and they don't get the degree, but they still have
to pay back the debt. And it's a disaster for our economy.
So we'll fund programs that track student progress inside and outside the classroom. Let's
figure out what's keeping students from crossing that finish line, and then put in place reforms
that will remove those barriers. Maybe it becomes too difficult for a parent to be away from
home, or too expensive for a waiter or a nurse to miss a shift. Maybe a young student just
isn't sure if her education will lead to employment. The point is, we need to figure out
solutions for these kinds of challenges -- because facing these impediments shouldn't prevent
you from reaching your potential.
All right, so that's a big chunk of this first part of this initiative. The second part: We're going
to back $10 billion in loans to renovate and rebuild college classrooms and buildings all across
the country. All too often, community colleges are treated like the stepchild of the higher
education system; they're an afterthought, if they're thought of at all. And that means
schools are often years behind in the facilities they provide, which means, in a 21st century
economy, they're years behind in the education they can offer. That's a mistake and it's one
that we'll help to correct. Through this fund, schools will have the chance to borrow at a more
affordable rate to modernize facilities, and they'll be building on the funds in the recovery plan
that are already helping to renovate schools, including community colleges all across the
country. And by the way, not only does this improve the schools and the training that they're
providing, guess what? You also have to hire some workers and some tradesmen and women
to do the work on those schools. So it means it's putting people to work in Michigan right
here right now.
Number three: Even as we repair bricks and mortar, we have an opportunity to build a new
virtual infrastructure to complement the education and training community colleges can offer.
So we're going to support the creation of a new online, open-source clearinghouse of courses
so that community colleges across the country can offer more classes without building more
classrooms. And this will make a big difference especially for rural campuses that a lot of
times have struggled -- attract -- have to struggle to attract students and faculty. And this
will make it possible for a professor to complement his lecture with an online exercise, or for a
student who can't be away from her family to still keep up with her coursework.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
We don't know where this kind of experiment will lead, but that's exactly why we ought to try
it because I think there's a possibility that online education can provide especially for people
who are already in the workforce and want to retrain the chance to upgrade their skills
without having to quit their job.
So let me say this more: The road to recovery, the road to prosperity, is going to be hard. It
was never going to be easy. When I was sworn in, we were seeing 700 [thousand] jobs lost
that month. Then we had the same amount lost for two more consecutive months. Now
we've got an average of about 400,000 jobs lost -- but we're still losing too many jobs. We
will get to the point where we're not losing jobs, but then we've got to start getting to the
point where we're actually creating jobs.
And it's going to take time. There are going to be false starts and there are going to be
setbacks. But I am confident that we can meet the challenges we face, because that's what
we've always done. That's what America does. We hit some challenges, we fuss and argue
about it, and then we go ahead and go about the business of solving our problems. That's
what we see on display right here at Macomb Community College. That's what I've seen at
colleges and universities all across this country. At every juncture in our history when we've
been challenged, we have summoned the resilience and the industriousness -- that can-do
American spirit -- that has allowed us to succeed in the face of even the toughest odds.
That's what we can and must do now, not just to overcome this crisis, but to leave something
better behind, to lay a foundation on which our children and our grandchildren can prosper
and take responsibility for their future -- just as the students at this school, at this difficult
moment, are taking responsibility for theirs.
I am absolutely confident that if I've got your help, that we can make it happen, and we are
going to see a stronger, more prosperous Michigan in the years to come.
Thank you very much, Warren. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329818" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Grande_Isle_Briefing.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Grande%20Isle%20Briefing.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Grande Isle Briefing on the Gulf Oil Spill Disaster
delivered 28 May 2010, Grande Isle, Louisiana

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. I know it’s a little warm out here so want to get started. I’ve
just had a meeting with these governors, members of Congress, local officials, as well as
Admiral Thad Allen, the National Incident Commander in charge of response efforts to the BP
oil spill. Admiral Allen gave us an update, the latest information on both the efforts to plug
the well, as well as giving us an update on arrangements and coordination that's being made
with respect to mitigating this damage that's been done.
He updated us on these latest efforts to stop the leak, mitigate the damage to the great
beaches of the Gulf coast, and I had the chance to visit with -- Charlotte -- a beach like Port
Fourchon that gives you a sense of what extraordinary efforts are being made at the local
level, but also the damage that we're already starting to see as a consequence of this spill.
Now, our mission remains the same as it has since this disaster began, since the day I visited
Louisiana nearly four weeks ago: We want to stop the leak; we want to contain and clean up
the oil; and we want to help the people of this region return to their lives and their livelihoods
as soon as possible.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And our response treats this event for what it is: It’s an assault on our shores, on our people,
on the regional economy, and on communities like this one. This isn’t just a mess that we’ve
got to mop up. People are watching their livelihoods wash up on the beach. Parents are
worried about the implications for their children’s health. Every resident of this community
has watched this nightmare threaten the dreams that they’ve worked so hard to build. And
they want it made right, and they want to make it right now.
I just had a chance to listen to Mayor David Carmadelle of Grande Isle, our host here, telling
us heartbreaking stories about fishermen who are trying to figure out where the next
paycheck is going to come from, how are they going to pay a mortgage or a note on their
boat. And he is having to dig into his pocket at this point to make sure that some of them are
able to deal with the economic impact. So this is something that has to be dealt with
immediately, not sometime later. And that’s everybody’s driving focus -- everybody who is
standing behind me. This is our highest priority and it deserves a response that is equal to the
task.
That’s why this has already been the largest cleanup effort in U.S. history. On the day this
disaster began, even as we launched a search and rescue effort for workers on the drilling rig,
we were already staging equipment in the event of a larger-scale spill. By the time we
discovered the third breach, a week after the Deepwater Horizon platform sank, we had
already stationed more than 70 vessels and hundreds of thousands of feet of protective boom
on site.
Today, there are more than 20,000 people in the region working around the clock to contain
and clean up this spill. We’ve activated about 1,400 members of the National Guard across
four states. Nearly 1,400 vessels are aiding in the containment and cleanup effort. And we
deployed more than 3 million feet of hard and sorbent boom, including an additional 100,000
just yesterday for these parishes in Louisiana that face the greatest threat.
Now, I’ve made clear to Admiral Allen and I did so again today that he should get whatever he
needs to deal with this crisis. Whatever he needs, he will get.
Right now, we’re still within the window where we don’t yet know the outcome of the highly
complex top kill procedure that the federal government authorized BP to use to try to stop the
leak. If it is successful, it would obviously be welcome news. If it’s not, a team of some of
the world’s top scientists, engineers and experts, led by our Energy Secretary and Nobel
Prize-winning physicist Steven Chu, has for some time being -- has for some time been
exploring any and all reasonable contingency plans.
But our response will continue with its full force regardless of the outcome of the top kill
approach -- because even if the leak was stopped today it wouldn’t change the fact that these
waters still contain oil from what is now the largest spill in American history. And more of it
will come ashore.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
To ensure that we’re fully prepared for that, and in accordance with input from folks down
here, I’ve directed Secretary Napolitano and Admiral Allen to triple the manpower in places
where oil has hit the shore or is within 24 hours of impact. This increase will allow us to
further intensify this already historic response, contain and remove oil more quickly, and help
minimize the time that any oil comes into contact with our coastline. That means deploying
more boom, cleaning more beaches, performing more monitoring of wildlife and impact to this
ecosystem.
We’re also going to continue to do whatever it takes to help Americans whose livelihoods have
been upended by this spill. Gulf Coast residents should know that we’ve gathered all
pertinent information regarding available assistance and the federal response in one place at
whitehouse.gov.
We have ordered BP to pay economic injury claims, and we will make sure they deliver. And
the parish presidents and governors here in Louisiana were already giving us some sense of
some of the bureaucratic problems that we’re going to have to cut through, but we are going
to cut through them. And for those who are in economic distress, if you’ve already filed a
claim and you’re not satisfied with the resolution, then whitehouse.gov will point you in the
right direction.
As I said yesterday, the Small Business Administration has stepped in to help businesses by
approving loans, but also as important, allowing many to defer existing loan payments. A lot
of folks are still loaded up with loans that they had from Katrina and other natural disasters
down here, so they may need some additional help.
If you’re a small business owner and you weren’t aware of some of the programs that have
been put in place or haven’t participated, then, again, the White House website will connect
you to the resources you need. And we are making sure that all the parish presidents know,
and folks like the mayor, other local officials are going to be aware of how they can get
immediate help from us.
What’s more, we’ve stationed doctors and scientists across the five Gulf States to look out for
people’s health and then to monitor any ill effects felt by cleanup workers and local residents.
And we’ve begun setting up a system to track these efforts -- excuse me, to track these
effects -- and ensure folks get the care that they need. And we’ve told BP that we expect
them to pay for that, too.
As I’ve said before, BP is the responsible party for this disaster. What that means is they’re
legally responsible for stopping the leak and they’re financially responsible for the enormous
damage that they’ve created. And we’re going to hold them accountable, along with any
other party responsible for the initial explosion and loss of life on that platform.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But as I said yesterday, and as I repeated in the meeting that we just left, I ultimately take
responsibility for solving this crisis. I’m the President and the buck stops with me. So I give
the people of this community and the entire Gulf my word that we’re going to hold ourselves
accountable to do whatever it takes for as long as it takes to stop this catastrophe, to defend
our natural resources, to repair the damage, and to keep this region on its feet. Justice will
be done for those whose lives have been upended by this disaster, for the families of those
whose lives have been lost -- that is a solemn pledge that I am making.
I think I can speak for anybody here, and for anybody who has been involved in the response
and the cleanup effort, and for most Americans, when I say that I would gladly do whatever it
takes to end this disaster today. But I want to also repeat something that I said to the group
as a whole while we were meeting. This is a manmade catastrophe that’s still evolving and
we face a long-term recovery and restoration effort.
America has never experienced an event like this before. And that means that as we respond
to it, not every judgment we make is going to be right the first time out. Sometimes, there
are going to be disagreements between experts, or between federal and state and local
officials, or among state officials, or between states, about what the most effective measures
will be.
Sometimes, there are going to be risks and unintended consequences associated with a
particular mitigation strategy that we consider. In other words, there are going to be a lot of
judgment calls involved here. There are not going to be silver bullets or a lot of perfect
answers for some of the challenges that we face.
Understandably, the feelings of frustration and anger, the sense that any response is
inadequate -- we expect that frustration and anger to continue until we actually solve this
problem. But in the meantime, we’ve got to make sure that everybody is working in concert,
that everybody is moving in the same direction. And I want everybody to know that
everybody here -- at every level -- is working night and day to end this crisis. We’re
considering every single idea out there, especially from folks who know these communities
best.
Admiral Allen announced yesterday, for example, that, after a bunch of back-and-forth
between state and federal experts, he is prepared to authorize moving forward with a portion
of the idea for a barrier island that may stop some of the oil from coming ashore. We had an
extensive conversation about this and -- to see whether additional steps can be taken on this
barrier island idea.
And what I told the parish president, what I told the Governor, is that if there is an idea that
can be shown to work, then we should move forward on it, and they deserve quick answers.
But I also reminded everybody that we’ve got to make sure that whatever we do is actually
going to work, particularly because we’re going to have not unlimited resources, at least not
right now. For example, there’s a limited amount of boom.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We’re going to try to get more boom manufactured. But that may take some time, and that
means we’re going to have to make some decisions about how to deploy it effectively.
The bottom line is this: Every decision we make is based on a single criterion -- what’s going
to best protect and make whole the people and the ecosystems of the Gulf.
And I want to thank everybody in this region who’s rolled up their sleeves and pitched in to
help -- from the National Guard putting their experience to the task, to the local officials and
every citizen who loves this area and calls it home, every American who’s traveled to the
region to lend a hand. If any American is looking for ways to volunteer and help, then we’ve
put links to that information on our website, as well -- that's whitehouse.gov.
And, all these governors -- Bobby Jindal, as well as Charlie Crist and Bob Riley, they want -and I know Haley Barbour is not here but I think he agrees with this, as well -- one of the
powerful ways that you can help the Gulf right now is to visit the communities and the
beaches off of the coast. Except for three beaches here in Louisiana, all of the Gulf’s beaches
at this moment are open, they are safe and they are clean. And so that's always a good way
to help, is to come down and provide support to the communities along the coasts.
To the people of the Gulf Coast: I know that you’ve weathered your fair share of trials and
tragedy. I know there have been times where you’ve wondered if you were being asked to
face them alone. I am here to tell you that you’re not alone. You will not be abandoned. You
will not be left behind. The cameras at some point may leave; the media may get tired of the
story; but we will not. We are on your side and we will see this through. We’re going to keep
at this every day until the leak has stopped, until this coastline is clean, and your communities
are made whole again. That’s my promise to you. And that is a promise on behalf of a
nation. It is one that we will keep.
And I will make one last point -- and I said this to every leader who is here: If something is
not going right down here, then they need to talk to Thad Allen. And if they’re not getting
satisfaction from Thad Allen, then they can talk to me. There’s nobody here who can’t get in
touch with me directly if there is an idea, a suggestion, or a logjam that needs to be dealt
with.
So we’re in this together. And it’s going to be a difficult time, and obviously the folks down
here are going to be feeling the brunt of it, but we’re going to make sure that we’re doing
everything we can to get this solved as quickly as possible.
And I want to again think everybody here for the extraordinary work that they’re putting in.
You shouldn’t underestimate how hard these folks are working, day in, day out, on behalf of
their constituencies.
So thank you very much. Thank you, everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329911" filename="Barack_Obama_-_GW_Fiscal_Policy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20GW%20Fiscal%20Policy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on Fiscal Policy at George Washington University
delivered 13 April 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

It is wonderful to be back at GW. I want you to know that one of the reasons that I worked
so hard with Democrats and Republicans to keep the government open was so that I could
show up here today. I wanted to make sure that all of you had one more excuse to skip
class. You’re welcome.
I want to give a special thanks to Steven Knapp, the president of GW. I just saw him -where is he? There he is right there.
We've got a lot of distinguished guests here -- a couple of people I want to acknowledge.
First of all, my outstanding Vice President, Joe Biden, is here. Our Secretary of the Treasury,
Tim Geithner, is in the house. Jack Lew, the Director of the Office of Mangement and Budget.
Gene Sperling, Chair of the National Economic Council, is here. Members of our bipartisan
Fiscal Commission are here, including the two outstanding chairs -- Erskine Bowles and Alan
Simpson -- are here.
And we have a number of members of Congress here today. I'm grateful for all of you taking
the time to attend.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
What we’ve been debating here in Washington over the last few weeks will affect the lives of
the students here and families all across America in potentially profound ways. This debate
over budgets and deficits is about more than just numbers on a page; it’s about more than
just cutting and spending. It’s about the kind of future that we want. It’s about the kind of
country that we believe in. And that’s what I want to spend some time talking about today.
From our first days as a nation, we have put our faith in free markets and free enterprise as
the engine of America’s wealth and prosperity. More than citizens of any other country, we
are rugged individualists, a self-reliant people with a healthy skepticism of too much
government.
But there’s always been another thread running through our history -– a belief that we’re all
connected, and that there are some things we can only do together, as a nation. We believe,
in the words of our first Republican President, Abraham Lincoln, that through government, we
should do together what we cannot do as well for ourselves.
And so we’ve built a strong military to keep us secure, and public schools and universities to
educate our citizens. We’ve laid down railroads and highways to facilitate travel and
commerce. We’ve supported the work of scientists and researchers whose discoveries have
saved lives, unleashed repeated technological revolutions, and led to countless new jobs and
entire new industries. Each of us has benefitted from these investments, and we’re a more
prosperous country as a result.
Part of this American belief that we’re all connected also expresses itself in a conviction that
each one of us deserves some basic measure of security and dignity. We recognize that no
matter how responsibly we live our lives, hard times or bad luck, a crippling illness or a layoff
may strike any one of us. “There but for the grace of God go I,” we say to ourselves. And so
we contribute to programs like Medicare and Social Security, which guarantee us health care
and a measure of basic income after a lifetime of hard work; unemployment insurance, which
protects us against unexpected job loss; and Medicaid, which provides care for millions of
seniors in nursing homes, poor children, those with disabilities. We’re a better country
because of these commitments. I’ll go further. We would not be a great country without
those commitments.
Now, for much of the last century, our nation found a way to afford these investments and
priorities with the taxes paid by its citizens. As a country that values fairness, wealthier
individuals have traditionally borne a greater share of this burden than the middle class or
those less fortunate. Everybody pays, but the wealthier have borne a little more. This is not
because we begrudge those who’ve done well -– we rightly celebrate their success. Instead,
it’s a basic reflection of our belief that those who’ve benefited most from our way of life can
afford to give back a little bit more. Moreover, this belief hasn’t hindered the success of those
at the top of the income scale. They continue to do better and better with each passing year.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, at certain times -– particularly during war or recession -– our nation has had to borrow
money to pay for some of our priorities. And as most families understand, a little credit card
debt isn’t going to hurt if it’s temporary.
But as far back as the 1980s, America started amassing debt at more alarming levels, and our
leaders began to realize that a larger challenge was on the horizon. They knew that
eventually, the Baby Boom generation would retire, which meant a much bigger portion of our
citizens would be relying on programs like Medicare, Social Security, and possibly Medicaid.
Like parents with young children who know they have to start saving for the college years,
America had to start borrowing less and saving more to prepare for the retirement of an entire
generation.
To meet this challenge, our leaders came together three times during the 1990s to reduce our
nation’s deficit -- three times. They forged historic agreements that required tough decisions
made by the first President Bush, then made by President Clinton, by Democratic Congresses
and by a Republican Congress. All three agreements asked for shared responsibility and
shared sacrifice. But they largely protected the middle class; they largely protected our
commitment to seniors; they protected our key investments in our future.
As a result of these bipartisan efforts, America’s finances were in great shape by the year
2000. We went from deficit to surplus. America was actually on track to becoming
completely debt free, and we were prepared for the retirement of the Baby Boomers.
But after Democrats and Republicans committed to fiscal discipline during the 1990s, we lost
our way in the decade that followed. We increased spending dramatically for two wars and an
expensive prescription drug program -– but we didn’t pay for any of this new spending.
Instead, we made the problem worse with trillions of dollars in unpaid-for tax cuts -– tax cuts
that went to every millionaire and billionaire in the country; tax cuts that will force us to
borrow an average of $500 billion every year over the next decade.
To give you an idea of how much damage this caused to our nation’s checkbook, consider
this: In the last decade, if we had simply found a way to pay for the tax cuts and the
prescription drug benefit, our deficit would currently be at low historical levels in the coming
years.
But that’s not what happened. And so, by the time I took office, we once again found
ourselves deeply in debt and unprepared for a Baby Boom retirement that is now starting to
take place. When I took office, our projected deficit, annually, was more than $1 trillion. On
top of that, we faced a terrible financial crisis and a recession that, like most recessions, led
us to temporarily borrow even more.
In this case, we took a series of emergency steps that saved millions of jobs, kept credit
flowing, and provided working families extra money in their pocket. It was absolutely the
right thing to do, but these steps were expensive, and added to our deficits in the short term.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So that’s how our fiscal challenge was created. That’s how we got here. And now that our
economic recovery is gaining strength, Democrats and Republicans must come together and
restore the fiscal responsibility that served us so well in the 1990s. We have to live within our
means. We have to reduce our deficit, and we have to get back on a path that will allow us to
pay down our debt. And we have to do it in a way that protects the recovery, protects the
investments we need to grow, create jobs, and helps us win the future.
Now, before I get into how we can achieve this goal, some of you, particularly the younger
people here -- you don't qualify, Joe. Some of you might be wondering, “Why is this so
important? Why does this matter to me?”
Well, here’s why. Even after our economy recovers, our government will still be on track to
spend more money than it takes in throughout this decade and beyond. That means we’ll
have to keep borrowing more from countries like China. That means more of your tax dollars
each year will go towards paying off the interest on all the loans that we keep taking out. By
the end of this decade, the interest that we owe on our debt could rise to nearly $1 trillion.
Think about that. That's the interest -- just the interest payments.
Then, as the Baby Boomers start to retire in greater numbers and health care costs continue
to rise, the situation will get even worse. By 2025, the amount of taxes we currently pay will
only be enough to finance our health care programs -- Medicare and Medicaid -- Social
Security, and the interest we owe on our debt. That’s it. Every other national priority -–
education, transportation, even our national security -– will have to be paid for with borrowed
money.
Now, ultimately, all this rising debt will cost us jobs and damage our economy. It will prevent
us from making the investments we need to win the future. We won’t be able to afford good
schools, new research, or the repair of roads -– all the things that create new jobs and
businesses here in America. Businesses will be less likely to invest and open shop in a
country that seems unwilling or unable to balance its books. And if our creditors start
worrying that we may be unable to pay back our debts, that could drive up interest rates for
everybody who borrows money -– making it harder for businesses to expand and hire, or
families to take out a mortgage.
Here’s the good news: That doesn’t have to be our future. That doesn’t have to be the
country that we leave our children. We can solve this problem. We came together as
Democrats and Republicans to meet this challenge before; we can do it again.
But that starts by being honest about what’s causing our deficit. You see, most Americans
tend to dislike government spending in the abstract, but like the stuff that it buys. Most of us,
regardless of party affiliation, believe that we should have a strong military and a strong
defense.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Most Americans believe we should invest in education and medical research. Most Americans
think we should protect commitments like Social Security and Medicare. And without even
looking at a poll, my finely honed political instincts tell me that almost nobody believes they
should be paying higher taxes.
So because all this spending is popular with both Republicans and Democrats alike, and
because nobody wants to pay higher taxes, politicians are often eager to feed the impression
that solving the problem is just a matter of eliminating waste and abuse. You’ll hear that
phrase a lot. “We just need to eliminate waste and abuse.” The implication is that tackling
the deficit issue won’t require tough choices. Or politicians suggest that we can somehow
close our entire deficit by eliminating things like foreign aid, even though foreign aid makes up
about 1 percent of our entire federal budget.
So here’s the truth. Around two-thirds of our budget -- two-thirds -- is spent on Medicare,
Medicaid, Social Security, and national security. Two-thirds. Programs like unemployment
insurance, student loans, veterans’ benefits, and tax credits for working families take up
another 20 percent. What’s left, after interest on the debt, is just 12 percent for everything
else. That’s 12 percent for all of our national priorities -- education, clean energy, medical
research, transportation, our national parks, food safety, keeping our air and water clean -you name it -- all of that accounts for 12 percent of our budget.
Now, up till now, the debate here in Washington, the cuts proposed by a lot of folks in
Washington, have focused exclusively on that 12 percent. But cuts to that 12 percent alone
won’t solve the problem. So any serious plan to tackle our deficit will require us to put
everything on the table, and take on excess spending wherever it exists in the budget.
A serious plan doesn’t require us to balance our budget overnight –- in fact, economists think
that with the economy just starting to grow again, we need a phased-in approach –- but it
does require tough decisions and support from our leaders in both parties now. Above all, it
will require us to choose a vision of the America we want to see five years, 10 years, 20 years
down the road.
Now, to their credit, one vision has been presented and championed by Republicans in the
House of Representatives and embraced by several of their party’s presidential candidates.
It’s a plan that aims to reduce our deficit by $4 trillion over the next 10 years, and one that
addresses the challenge of Medicare and Medicaid in the years after that.
These are both worthy goals. They’re worthy goals for us to achieve. But the way this plan
achieves those goals would lead to a fundamentally different America than the one we’ve
known certainly in my lifetime. In fact, I think it would be fundamentally different than what
we’ve known throughout our history.
A 70 percent cut in clean energy. A 25 percent cut in education. A 30 percent cut in
transportation. Cuts in college Pell Grants that will grow to more than $1,000 per year.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s the proposal. These aren’t the kind of cuts you make when you’re trying to get rid of
some waste or find extra savings in the budget. These aren’t the kinds of cuts that the Fiscal
Commission proposed. These are the kinds of cuts that tell us we can’t afford the America
that I believe in and I think you believe in.
I believe it paints a vision of our future that is deeply pessimistic. It’s a vision that says if our
roads crumble and our bridges collapse, we can’t afford to fix them. If there are bright young
Americans who have the drive and the will but not the money to go to college, we can’t afford
to send them.
Go to China and you’ll see businesses opening research labs and solar facilities. South Korean
children are outpacing our kids in math and science. They’re scrambling to figure out how
they put more money into education. Brazil is investing billions in new infrastructure and can
run half their cars not on high-priced gasoline, but on biofuels. And yet, we are presented
with a vision that says the American people, the United States of America -– the greatest
nation on Earth -– can’t afford any of this.
It’s a vision that says America can’t afford to keep the promise we’ve made to care for our
seniors. It says that 10 years from now, if you’re a 65-year-old who’s eligible for Medicare,
you should have to pay nearly $6,400 more than you would today. It says instead of
guaranteed health care, you will get a voucher. And if that voucher isn’t worth enough to buy
the insurance that’s available in the open marketplace, well, tough luck -– you’re on your
own. Put simply, it ends Medicare as we know it.
It’s a vision that says up to 50 million Americans have to lose their health insurance in order
for us to reduce the deficit. Who are these 50 million Americans? Many are somebody’s
grandparents -- may be one of yours -- who wouldn’t be able to afford nursing home care
without Medicaid. Many are poor children. Some are middle-class families who have children
with autism or Down’s syndrome. Some of these kids with disabilities are -- the disabilities
are so severe that they require 24-hour care. These are the Americans we’d be telling to fend
for themselves.
And worst of all, this is a vision that says even though Americans can’t afford to invest in
education at current levels, or clean energy, even though we can’t afford to maintain our
commitment on Medicare and Medicaid, we can somehow afford more than $1 trillion in new
tax breaks for the wealthy. Think about that.
In the last decade, the average income of the bottom 90 percent of all working Americans
actually declined. Meanwhile, the top 1 percent saw their income rise by an average of more
than a quarter of a million dollars each. That’s who needs to pay less taxes?
They want to give people like me a $200,000 tax cut that’s paid for by asking 33 seniors each
to pay $6,000 more in health costs. That’s not right. And it’s not going to happen as long as
I’m President.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
This vision is less about reducing the deficit than it is about changing the basic social compact
in America. Ronald Reagan’s own budget director said, there’s nothing “serious” or
“courageous” about this plan. There’s nothing serious about a plan that claims to reduce the
deficit by spending a trillion dollars on tax cuts for millionaires and billionaires. And I don't
think there’s anything courageous about asking for sacrifice from those who can least afford it
and don’t have any clout on Capitol Hill. That's not a vision of the America I know.
The America I know is generous and compassionate. It’s a land of opportunity and optimism.
Yes, we take responsibility for ourselves, but we also take responsibility for each other; for the
country we want and the future that we share. We’re a nation that built a railroad across a
continent and brought light to communities shrouded in darkness. We sent a generation to
college on the GI Bill and we saved millions of seniors from poverty with Social Security and
Medicare. We have led the world in scientific research and technological breakthroughs that
have transformed millions of lives. That’s who we are. This is the America that I know. We
don’t have to choose between a future of spiraling debt and one where we forfeit our
investment in our people and our country.
To meet our fiscal challenge, we will need to make reforms. We will all need to make
sacrifices. But we do not have to sacrifice the America we believe in. And as long as I’m
President, we won’t.
So today, I’m proposing a more balanced approach to achieve $4 trillion in deficit reduction
over 12 years. It’s an approach that borrows from the recommendations of the bipartisan
Fiscal Commission that I appointed last year, and it builds on the roughly $1 trillion in deficit
reduction I already proposed in my 2012 budget. It’s an approach that puts every kind of
spending on the table -- but one that protects the middle class, our promise to seniors, and
our investments in the future.
The first step in our approach is to keep annual domestic spending low by building on the
savings that both parties agreed to last week. That step alone will save us about $750 billion
over 12 years. We will make the tough cuts necessary to achieve these savings, including in
programs that I care deeply about, but I will not sacrifice the core investments that we need
to grow and create jobs. We will invest in medical research. We will invest in clean energy
technology. We will invest in new roads and airports and broadband access. We will invest in
education. We will invest in job training. We will do what we need to do to compete, and we
will win the future.
The second step in our approach is to find additional savings in our defense budget. Now, as
Commander-in-Chief, I have no greater responsibility than protecting our national security,
and I will never accept cuts that compromise our ability to defend our homeland or America’s
interests around the world. But as the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs, Admiral Mullen, has said,
the greatest long-term threat to America’s national security is America’s debt. So just as we
must find more savings in domestic programs, we must do the same in defense. And we can
do that while still keeping ourselves safe.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Over the last two years, Secretary Bob Gates has courageously taken on wasteful spending,
saving $400 billion in current and future spending. I believe we can do that again. We need
to not only eliminate waste and improve efficiency and effectiveness, but we’re going to have
to conduct a fundamental review of America’s missions, capabilities, and our role in a
changing world. I intend to work with Secretary Gates and the Joint Chiefs on this review,
and I will make specific decisions about spending after it’s complete.
The third step in our approach is to further reduce health care spending in our budget. Now,
here, the difference with the House Republican plan could not be clearer. Their plan
essentially lowers the government’s health care bills by asking seniors and poor families to
pay them instead. Our approach lowers the government’s health care bills by reducing the
cost of health care itself.
Already, the reforms we passed in the health care law will reduce our deficit by $1 trillion. My
approach would build on these reforms. We will reduce wasteful subsidies and erroneous
payments. We will cut spending on prescription drugs by using Medicare’s purchasing power
to drive greater efficiency and speed generic brands of medicine onto the market. We will
work with governors of both parties to demand more efficiency and accountability from
Medicaid.
We will change the way we pay for health care -– not by the procedure or the number of days
spent in a hospital, but with new incentives for doctors and hospitals to prevent injuries and
improve results. And we will slow the growth of Medicare costs by strengthening an
independent commission of doctors, nurses, medical experts and consumers who will look at
all the evidence and recommend the best ways to reduce unnecessary spending while
protecting access to the services that seniors need.
Now, we believe the reforms we’ve proposed to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid will enable
us to keep these commitments to our citizens while saving us $500 billion by 2023, and an
additional $1 trillion in the decade after that. But if we’re wrong, and Medicare costs rise
faster than we expect, then this approach will give the independent commission the authority
to make additional savings by further improving Medicare.
But let me be absolutely clear: I will preserve these health care programs as a promise we
make to each other in this society. I will not allow Medicare to become a voucher program
that leaves seniors at the mercy of the insurance industry, with a shrinking benefit to pay for
rising costs. I will not tell families with children who have disabilities that they have to fend
for themselves. We will reform these programs, but we will not abandon the fundamental
commitment this country has kept for generations.
That includes, by the way, our commitment to Social Security. While Social Security is not the
cause of our deficit, it faces real long-term challenges in a country that’s growing older. As I
said in the State of the Union, both parties should work together now to strengthen Social
Security for future generations.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
But we have to do it without putting at risk current retirees, or the most vulnerable, or people
with disabilities; without slashing benefits for future generations; and without subjecting
Americans’ guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock market. And it can be
done.
The fourth step in our approach is to reduce spending in the tax code, so-called tax
expenditures. In December, I agreed to extend the tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans
because it was the only way I could prevent a tax hike on middle-class Americans. But we
cannot afford $1 trillion worth of tax cuts for every millionaire and billionaire in our society.
We can’t afford it. And I refuse to renew them again.
Beyond that, the tax code is also loaded up with spending on things like itemized deductions.
And while I agree with the goals of many of these deductions, from homeownership to
charitable giving, we can’t ignore the fact that they provide millionaires an average tax break
of $75,000 but do nothing for the typical middle-class family that doesn’t itemize. So my
budget calls for limiting itemized deductions for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans -- a
reform that would reduce the deficit by $320 billion over 10 years.
But to reduce the deficit, I believe we should go further. And that’s why I’m calling on
Congress to reform our individual tax code so that it is fair and simple -- so that the amount
of taxes you pay isn’t determined by what kind of accountant you can afford.
I believe reform should protect the middle class, promote economic growth, and build on the
fiscal commission’s model of reducing tax expenditures so that there’s enough savings to both
lower rates and lower the deficit. And as I called for in the State of the Union, we should
reform our corporate tax code as well, to make our businesses and our economy more
competitive.
So this is my approach to reduce the deficit by $4 trillion over the next 12 years. It’s an
approach that achieves about $2 trillion in spending cuts across the budget. It will lower our
interest payments on the debt by $1 trillion. It calls for tax reform to cut about $1 trillion in
tax expenditures -- spending in the tax code. And it achieves these goals while protecting the
middle class, protecting our commitment to seniors, and protecting our investments in the
future.
Now, in the coming years, if the recovery speeds up and our economy grows faster than our
current projections, we can make even greater progress than I’ve pledged here. But just to
hold Washington -- and to hold me --- accountable and make sure that the debt burden
continues to decline, my plan includes a debt failsafe. If, by 2014, our debt is not projected
to fall as a share of the economy -– if we haven’t hit our targets, if Congress has failed to act
-– then my plan will require us to come together and make up the additional savings with
more spending cuts and more spending reductions in the tax code. That should be an
incentive for us to act boldly now, instead of kicking our problems further down the road.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
So this is our vision for America -– this is my vision for America -- a vision where we live
within our means while still investing in our future; where everyone makes sacrifices but no
one bears all the burden; where we provide a basic measure of security for our citizens and
we provide rising opportunity for our children.
There will be those who vigorously disagree with my approach. I can guarantee that as well.
Some will argue we should not even consider ever -- ever -- raising taxes, even if only on the
wealthiest Americans. It’s just an article of faith to them. I say that at a time when the tax
burden on the wealthy is at its lowest level in half a century, the most fortunate among us can
afford to pay a little more. I don’t need another tax cut. Warren Buffett doesn’t need another
tax cut. Not if we have to pay for it by making seniors pay more for Medicare. Or by cutting
kids from Head Start. Or by taking away college scholarships that I wouldn’t be here without
and that some of you would not be here without.
And here’s the thing: I believe that most wealthy Americans would agree with me. They
want to give back to their country, a country that’s done so much for them. It’s just
Washington hasn’t asked them to.
Others will say that we shouldn’t even talk about cutting spending until the economy is fully
recovered. These are mostly folks in my party. I’m sympathetic to this view -- which is one
of the reasons I supported the payroll tax cuts we passed in December. It’s also why we have
to use a scalpel and not a machete to reduce the deficit, so that we can keep making the
investments that create jobs. But doing nothing on the deficit is just not an option. Our debt
has grown so large that we could do real damage to the economy if we don’t begin a process
now to get our fiscal house in order.
Finally, there are those who believe we shouldn’t make any reforms to Medicare, Medicaid, or
Social Security, out of fear that any talk of change to these programs will immediately usher
in the sort of steps that the House Republicans have proposed. And I understand those fears.
But I guarantee that if we don’t make any changes at all, we won’t be able to keep our
commitment to a retiring generation that will live longer and will face higher health care costs
than those who came before.
Indeed, to those in my own party, I say that if we truly believe in a progressive vision of our
society, we have an obligation to prove that we can afford our commitments. If we believe
the government can make a difference in people’s lives, we have the obligation to prove that
it works -– by making government smarter, and leaner and more effective.
Of course, there are those who simply say there’s no way we can come together at all and
agree on a solution to this challenge. They’ll say the politics of this city are just too broken;
the choices are just too hard; the parties are just too far apart. And after a few years on this
job, I have some sympathy for this view.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
But I also know that we’ve come together before and met big challenges. Ronald Reagan and
Tip O’Neill came together to save Social Security for future generations. The first President
Bush and a Democratic Congress came together to reduce the deficit. President Clinton and a
Republican Congress battled each other ferociously, disagreed on just about everything, but
they still found a way to balance the budget. And in the last few months, both parties have
come together to pass historic tax relief and spending cuts.
And I know there are Republicans and Democrats in Congress who want to see a balanced
approach to deficit reduction. And even those Republicans I disagree with most strongly I
believe are sincere about wanting to do right by their country. We may disagree on our
visions, but I truly believe they want to do the right thing.
So I believe we can, and must, come together again. This morning, I met with Democratic
and Republican leaders in Congress to discuss the approach that I laid out today. And in early
May, the Vice President will begin regular meetings with leaders in both parties with the aim of
reaching a final agreement on a plan to reduce the deficit and get it done by the end of June.
I don’t expect the details in any final agreement to look exactly like the approach I laid out
today. This a democracy; that’s not how things work. I’m eager to hear other ideas from all
ends of the political spectrum. And though I’m sure the criticism of what I’ve said here today
will be fierce in some quarters, and my critique of the House Republican approach has been
strong, Americans deserve and will demand that we all make an effort to bridge our
differences and find common ground.
This larger debate that we’re having -- this larger debate about the size and the role of
government -- it has been with us since our founding days. And during moments of great
challenge and change, like the one that we’re living through now, the debate gets sharper and
it gets more vigorous. That’s not a bad thing. In fact, it’s a good thing. As a country that
prizes both our individual freedom and our obligations to one another, this is one of the most
important debates that we can have.
But no matter what we argue, no matter where we stand, we’ve always held certain beliefs as
Americans. We believe that in order to preserve our own freedoms and pursue our own
happiness, we can’t just think about ourselves. We have to think about the country that
made these liberties possible. We have to think about our fellow citizens with whom we share
a community. And we have to think about what’s required to preserve the American Dream
for future generations.
This sense of responsibility -- to each other and to our country -- this isn’t a partisan feeling.
It isn’t a Democratic or a Republican idea. It’s patriotism.
The other day I received a letter from a man in Florida. He started off by telling me he didn’t
vote for me and he hasn’t always agreed with me.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
But even though he’s worried about our economy and the state of our politics -- here’s what
he said -- he said, “I still believe. I believe in that great country that my grandfather told me
about. I believe that somewhere lost in this quagmire of petty bickering on every news
station, the ‘American Dream’ is still alive…We need to use our dollars here rebuilding,
refurbishing and restoring all that our ancestors struggled to create and maintain… We as a
people must do this together, no matter the color of the state one comes from or the side of
the aisle one might sit on.”
“I still believe.” I still believe as well. And I know that if we can come together and uphold
our responsibilities to one another and to this larger enterprise that is America, we will keep
the dream of our founding alive -- in our time; and we will pass it on to our children. We will
pass on to our children a country that we believe in.
Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12
</doc>
<doc id="file32329781" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Health_Care_Bill_Passage.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Health%20Care%20Bill%20Passage.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Nation on Health Care Bill Passage

Delivered 21 March 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good evening, everybody. Tonight, after nearly 100 years of talk and frustration, after
decades of trying, and a year of sustained effort and debate, the United States Congress
finally declared that America’s workers and America's families and America's small businesses
deserve the security of knowing that here, in this country, neither illness nor accident should
endanger the dreams they’ve worked a lifetime to achieve.
Tonight, at a time when the pundits said it was no longer possible, we rose above the weight
of our politics. We pushed back on the undue influence of special interests. We didn't give in
to mistrust or to cynicism or to fear. Instead, we proved that we are still a people capable of
doing big things and tackling our biggest challenges. We proved that this government -- a
government of the people and by the people -- still works for the people.
I want to thank every member of Congress who stood up tonight with courage and conviction
to make health care reform a reality. And I know this wasn’t an easy vote for a lot of people.
But it was the right vote. I want to thank Speaker Nancy Pelosi for her extraordinary
leadership, and Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and Majority Whip Jim Clyburn for their
commitment to getting the job done. I want to thank my outstanding Vice President, Joe
Biden, and my wonderful Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, for
their fantastic work on this issue. I want to thank the many staffers in Congress, and my own
incredible staff in the White House, who have worked tirelessly over the past year with
Americans of all walks of life to forge a reform package finally worthy of the people we were
sent here to serve.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Today’s vote answers the dreams of so many who have fought for this reform. To every
unsung American who took the time to sit down and write a letter or type out an e-mail
hoping your voice would be heard -- it has been heard tonight. To the untold numbers who
knocked on doors and made phone calls, who organized and mobilized out of a firm conviction
that change in this country comes not from the top down, but from the bottom up -- let me
reaffirm that conviction: This moment is possible because of you.
Most importantly, today’s vote answers the prayers of every American who has hoped deeply
for something to be done about a health care system that works for insurance companies, but
not for ordinary people. For most Americans, this debate has never been about abstractions,
the fight between right and left, Republican and Democrat -- it’s always been about something
far more personal. It’s about every American who knows the shock of opening an envelope to
see that their premiums just shot up again when times are already tough enough. It’s about
every parent who knows the desperation of trying to cover a child with a chronic illness only
to be told “no” again and again and again. It’s about every small business owner forced to
choose between insuring employees and staying open for business. They are why we
committed ourselves to this cause.
Tonight’s vote is not a victory for any one party -- it's a victory for them. It's a victory for the
American people. And it's a victory for common sense.
Now, it probably goes without saying that tonight’s vote will give rise to a frenzy of instant
analysis. There will be tallies of Washington winners and losers, predictions about what it
means for Democrats and Republicans, for my poll numbers, for my administration. But long
after the debate fades away and the prognostication fades away and the dust settles, what
will remain standing is not the government-run system some feared, or the status quo that
serves the interests of the insurance industry, but a health care system that incorporates
ideas from both parties -- a system that works better for the American people.
If you have health insurance, this reform just gave you more control by reining in the worst
excesses and abuses of the insurance industry with some of the toughest consumer
protections this country has ever known -- so that you are actually getting what you pay for.
If you don’t have insurance, this reform gives you a chance to be a part of a big purchasing
pool that will give you choice and competition and cheaper prices for insurance. And it
includes the largest health care tax cut for working families and small businesses in history -so that if you lose your job and you change jobs, start that new business, you’ll finally be able
to purchase quality, affordable care and the security and peace of mind that comes with it.
This reform is the right thing to do for our seniors. It makes Medicare stronger and more
solvent, extending its life by almost a decade. And it’s the right thing to do for our future. It
will reduce our deficit by more than $100 billion over the next decade, and more than $1
trillion in the decade after that.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So this isn’t radical reform. But it is major reform. This legislation will not fix everything that
ails our health care system. But it moves us decisively in the right direction. This is what
change looks like.
Now as momentous as this day is, it's not the end of this journey. On Tuesday, the Senate will
take up revisions to this legislation that the House has embraced, and these are revisions that
have strengthened this law and removed provisions that had no place in it. Some have
predicted another siege of parliamentary maneuvering in order to delay adoption of these
improvements. I hope that’s not the case. It’s time to bring this debate to a close and begin
the hard work of implementing this reform properly on behalf of the American people. This
year, and in years to come, we have a solemn responsibility to do it right.
Nor does this day represent the end of the work that faces our country. The work of
revitalizing our economy goes on. The work of promoting private sector job creation goes on.
The work of putting American families’ dreams back within reach goes on. And we march on,
with renewed confidence, energized by this victory on their behalf.
In the end, what this day represents is another stone firmly laid in the foundation of the
American Dream. Tonight, we answered the call of history as so many generations of
Americans have before us. When faced with crisis, we did not shrink from our challenge -- we
overcame it. We did not avoid our responsibility -- we embraced it. We did not fear our future
-- we shaped it.
Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329776" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Health_Care_George_Mason.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Health%20Care%20George%20Mason.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Health Care at George Mason University

delivered 19 March 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, George Mason! How’s everybody doing today? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
AUDIENCE: Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!
THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, everybody. It’s good to be back with some real Patriots. I want to thank Dr.
Alan Merten, the President of George Mason University, and his family. Dr. Shirley Travis, who’s here -thank you. And Coach Larranaga, we were just talking a little bit about -- looking forward to picking George
Mason in my bracket next year.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: We love you!
THE PRESIDENT: I love you! I don’t know if some of you remember, but I visited this university about three
years ago for the first time. This was at just the dawn of my presidential campaign. It was about three weeks
old, I think. We didn’t have a lot of money. We didn’t have a lot of staff. Nobody could pronounce my name.
Our poll numbers were quite low. And a lot of people -- a lot of people in Washington, they didn’t think it was
even worth us trying.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes we can!
THE PRESIDENT: They had counted us out before we had even started, because the Washington
conventional wisdom was that change was too hard. But what we had even then was a group of students
here at George Mason -- who believed that if we worked hard enough and if we fought long enough, if we
organized enough supporters, then we could finally bring change to that city across the river. We believed
that despite all the resistance, we could make Washington work. Not for the lobbyists, not for the special
interests, not for the politicians, but for the American people.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And now three years later, I stand before you, one year after the worst recession since the Great
Depression, having to make a bunch of tough decisions, having had a tumultuous debate, having had a lot
of folks who were skeptical that we could get anything done. And right now, we are at the point where we
are going to do something historic this weekend. That’s what this health care vote is all about.
AUDIENCE: Yes we can! Yes we can! Yes we can!
THE PRESIDENT: A few miles from here, Congress is in the final stages of a fateful debate about the future
of health insurance in America. It’s a debate that’s raged not just for the past year but for the past century.
One thing when you’re in the White House, you’ve got a lot of history books around you. And so I’ve been
reading up on the history here. Teddy Roosevelt, Republican, was the first to advocate that everybody get
health care in this country. Every decade since, we’ve had Presidents, Republicans and Democrats, from
Harry Truman to Richard Nixon to JFK to Lyndon Johnson to -- every single President has said we need to
fix this system. It’s a debate that’s not only about the cost of health care, not just about what we’re doing
about folks who aren’t getting a fair shake from their insurance companies. It’s a debate about the character
of our country-- about whether we can still meet the challenges of our time; whether we still have the guts
and the courage to give every citizen, not just some, the chance to reach their dreams.
At the heart of this debate is the question of whether we’re going to accept a system that works better for
the insurance companies than it does for the American people -- because if this vote fails, the insurance
industry will continue to run amok. They will continue to deny people coverage. They will continue to deny
people care. They will continue to jack up premiums 40 or 50 or 60 percent as they have in the last few
weeks without any accountability whatsoever. They know this. And that’s why their lobbyists are stalking the
halls of Congress as we speak, and pouring millions of dollars into negative ads. And that’s why they are
doing everything they can to kill this bill.
So the only question left is this: Are we going to let the special interests win once again?
AUDIENCE: No!
THE PRESIDENT: Or are we going to make this vote a victory for the American people?
AUDIENCE: Yes we can! Yes we can!
THE PRESIDENT: George Mason, the time for reform is right now. Not a year from now, not five years from
now, not 10 years from now, not 20 years from now -- it’s now. We have had -- we have had a year of hard
debate. Every proposal has been put on the table. Every argument has been made. We have incorporated
the best ideas from Democrats and from Republicans into a final proposal that builds on the system of
private insurance that we currently have. The insurance industry and its supporters in Congress have tried
to portray this as radical change.
Now, I just -- I just want to be clear, everybody. Listen up, because we have heard every crazy thing about
this bill. You remember. First we heard this was a government takeover of health care. Then we heard that
this was going to kill granny. Then we heard, well, illegal immigrants are going to be getting the main
benefits of this bill. There has been -- they have thrown every argument at this legislative effort.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
But when it -- it turns out, at the end of the day, what we’re talking about is common-sense reform. That’s all
we’re talking about.
If you like your doctor, you’re going to be able to keep your doctor. If you like your plan, keep your plan. I
don’t believe we should give government or the insurance companies more control over health care in
America. I think it’s time to give you, the American people, more control over your health.
And since you’ve been hearing a whole bunch of nonsense, let’s just be clear on what exactly the proposal
that they’re going to vote on in a couple of days will do. It’s going to -- it’s going to change health care in
three ways. Number one, we are going to end the worst practices of insurance companies. This is -- this is a
patient’s bill of rights on steroids. Starting this year, thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting
conditions will be able to purchase health insurance, some for the very first time. Starting this year,
insurance companies will be banned forever from denying coverage to children with preexisting conditions.
Starting this year, insurance companies will be banned from dropping your coverage when you get sick. And
they’ve been spending a lot of time weeding out people who are sick so they don’t have to pay benefits that
people have already paid for. Those practices will end.
If this reform becomes law, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care to their
customers. If you buy a new plan, there won’t be lifetime or restrictive annual limits on the amount of care
you receive from your insurance companies. And by the way, to all the young people here today, starting
this year if you don’t have insurance, all new plans will allow you to stay on your parents’ plan until you are
26 years old.
So you’ll have some security when you graduate. If that first job doesn’t offer coverage, you’re going to
know that you’ve got coverage. Because as you start your lives and your careers, the last thing you should
be worried about is whether you’re going to go broke or make your parents broke just because you get sick.
All right?
So that’s the first thing this legislation does -- the toughest insurance reforms in history. And by the way,
when you talk to Republicans and you say, well, are you against this? A lot of them will say, no, no, that
part’s okay. All right, so let’s go to the second part.
The second thing that would change about the current system is that for the first time, small business
owners and people who are being priced out of the insurance market will have the same kind of choice of
private health insurance that members of Congress give to themselves.
So what this means is, is that small business owners and middle-class families, they’re going to be able to
be part of what’s called a big pool of customers that can negotiate with the insurance companies. And that
means they can purchase more affordable coverage in a competitive marketplace. So they’re not out there
on their own just shopping. They’re part of millions of people who are shopping together. And if you still can’t
afford the insurance in this new marketplace, even though it’s going to be cheaper than what you can get on
your own, then we’re going to offer you tax credits to help you afford it -- tax credits that add up to the
largest middle-class tax cut for health care in American history.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, these tax credits cost money. Helping folks who can’t afford it right now, that does cost some money. It
costs about $100 billion per year. But most of the cost -AUDIENCE MEMBER: That’s all right.
THE PRESIDENT: Well, here’s the reason it’s all right. Here’s the reason it’s all right. It wouldn’t be all right
if we weren’t paying for it -- and by the way, that's what a previous Congress did with the prescription drug
plan. All they did was they gave the benefits and they didn’t pay for it.
That's not what we’re doing. What we’re doing is we’re taking money that America is already spending in the
health care system, but is being spent poorly, that's going to waste and fraud and unwarranted subsidies for
the insurance companies, and we’re taking that money and making sure those dollars go towards making
insurance more affordable.
So we’re going to eliminate wasteful taxpayer subsidies to insurance companies. We’re going to set a new
fee on insurance companies that stand to gain millions of new customers. So here’s the point: This
proposal is paid for. Unlike some of these previous schemes in Washington, we’re not taking out the credit
card in your name, young people, and charging it to you. We’re making sure this thing is paid for. All right,
so that's the second thing.
Now, the third thing that this legislation does is it brings down the cost of health care for families and
businesses and the federal government. Americans who are buying comparable coverage in the individual
market would end up seeing their premiums go down 14 to 20 percent. Americans who get their insurance
through the workplace, cost savings could be as much as $3,000 less per employer than if we do nothing.
Now, think about that. That’s $3,000 your employer doesn’t have to pay, which means maybe she can afford
to give you a raise.
And by the way, if you’re curious, well, how exactly are we saving these costs? Well, part of it is, again,
we’re not spending our health care money wisely. So, for example, you go to the hospital or you go to a
doctor and you may take five tests, when it turns out if you just took one test, then you send an e-mail
around with the test results, you wouldn’t be paying $500 per test. So we’re trying to save money across the
system. And altogether, our cost-cutting measures would reduce most people’s premiums. And here’s the
bonus: It brings down our deficit by more than $1 trillion over the next two decades.
So you’ve got -- you’ve got a whole bunch of opponents of this bill saying, well, we can’t afford this; we’re
fiscal conservatives. These are the same guys who passed that prescription drug bill without paying for it,
adding over $1 trillion to our deficit -- “Oh, we can’t afford this.” But this bill, according to the Congressional
Budget Office -- which is the referee, the scorekeeper for how much things cost -- says we’ll save us $1
trillion. Not only can we afford to do this, we can’t afford not to do this.
So here’s the bottom line. That’s our proposal: toughest insurance reforms in history, one of the biggest
deficit-reduction plans in history, and the opportunity to give millions of people -- some of them in your own
family, some of the people who are in this auditorium today -- an opportunity for the first time in a very long
time to get affordable health care. That’s it. That’s what we’re trying to do. That’s what the Congress of the
United States is about to vote on this weekend.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, it would be nice if we were just kind of examining the substance, we were walking through the details
of the plan, what it means for you. But that’s not what the cable stations like to talk about. What they like to
talk about is the politics of the vote. What does this mean in November? What does it mean to the poll
numbers? Is this more of an advantage for Democrats or Republicans? What’s it going to mean for Obama?
Will his presidency be crippled, or will he be the comeback kid? That’s what they like to talk about. That’s
what they like to talk about. I understand.
One of the things you realize is basically that a lot of reporting in Washington, it’s just like SportsCenter. It’s
considered a sport, and who’s up and who’s down, and everybody’s keeping score. And you got the teams
going at it. It’s Rock ‘Em Sock ‘Em Robots.
Look, let me say this, George Mason: I don’t know how this plays politically. Nobody really does. I mean,
there’s been so much misinformation and so much confusion and the climate at times during the course of
this year has been so toxic and people are so anxious because the economy has been going through such
a tough time. I don’t know what’s going to happen with the politics on this thing. I don’t know whether my poll
numbers go down, they go up. I don’t know what happens in terms of Democrats versus Republicans.
But here’s what I do know. I do know that this bill, this legislation, is going to be enormously important for
America’s future. I do know the impact it will have on the millions of Americans who need our help, and the
millions more who may not need help right now but a year from now or five years from now or 10 years from
now, if they have some bad luck; if, heaven forbid, they get sick; if they’ve got a preexisting condition; if their
child has a preexisting condition; if they lose their job; if they want to start a company -- I know the impact it
will have on them.
I know what this reform will mean for people like Leslie Banks, a single mom I met in Pennsylvania. She’s
trying to put her daughter through college, just like probably some of your moms and dads are trying to put
you through college. And her insurance company just sent her a letter saying they plan to double her
premium this year -– have it go up 100 percent. And she can’t afford it. So now she’s trying to figure out, am
I going to keep my insurance or am I going to keep my daughter in college? Leslie Banks needs us to pass
this reform bill.
I know what reform will mean for people like Laura Klitzka. I met Laura up in Green Bay, Wisconsin, while I
was campaigning. She thought she had beaten her breast cancer. Then she discovered it had spread to her
bones. And she and her insurance -- she and her husband, they were lucky enough to have insurance, but
their medical bills still landed them in debt. So now she’s spending time worrying about the debt when all
she wants to do is think about how she can spend time with her two kids. Laura needs us to pass this reform
bill.
I know what reform will mean for people like Natoma Canfield. When her insurance company raised her
rates, she had to give up her coverage, even though she had been paying thousands of dollars in premiums
for years, because she had beaten cancer 11 years earlier. They kept on jacking up her rates, jacking up
her rates. Finally she thought she was going to lose her home. She was scared that a sudden illness would
lead to financial ruin, but she had no choice. Right now she’s lying in a hospital bed, faced with paying for
such an illness, after she had to give up her health insurance. She’s praying that somehow she can afford to
get well. She knows that it is time for reform.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
So George Mason, when you hear people saying, well, why don't we do this more incrementally, why don't
we do this a little more piecemeal, why don't we just help the folks that are easiest to help -- my answer is
the time for reform is now. We have waited long enough. We have waited long enough.
And in just a few days, a century-long struggle will culminate in a historic vote. We’ve had historic votes
before. We had a historic vote to put Social Security in place to make sure that our elderly did not live out
their golden years in poverty. We had a historic vote in civil rights to make sure that everybody was equal
under the law. As messy as this process is, as frustrating as this process is, as ugly as this process can be,
when we have faced such decisions in our past, this nation, time and time again, has chosen to extend its
promise to more of its people.
You know, the naysayers said that Social Security would lead to socialism. But the men and women of
Congress stood fast and created that program that lifted millions out of poverty.
There were cynics that warned that Medicare would lead to a government takeover of our entire health care
system, and that it didn’t have much support in the polls. But Democrats and Republicans refused to back
down, and they made sure that our seniors had the health care that they needed and could have some
basic peace of mind.
So previous generations, those who came before us, made the decision that our seniors and our poor,
through Medicaid, should not be forced to go without health care just because they couldn’t afford it. Today
it falls to this generation to decide whether we will make that same promise to hardworking middle-class
families and small businesses all across America, and to young Americans like yourselves who are just
starting out.
So here’s my bottom line. I know this has been a difficult journey. I know this will be a tough vote. I know
that everybody is counting votes right now in Washington. But I also remember a quote I saw on a plaque in
the White House the other day. It’s hanging in the same room where I demanded answers from insurance
executives and just received a bunch of excuses. And it was a quote from Teddy Roosevelt, the person who
first called for health care reform -- that Republican -- all those years ago. And it said, “Aggressively fighting
for the right is the noblest sport the world affords.”
Now, I don’t know how passing health care will play politically -- but I know it’s right. Teddy Roosevelt knew
it was right. Harry Truman knew that it was right. Ted Kennedy knew it was right. And if you believe that it’s
right, then you've got to help us finish this fight. You've got to stand with me just like you did three years ago
and make some phone calls and knock on some doors, talk to your parents, talk to your friends. Do not quit,
do not give up, we keep on going. We are going to get this done. We are going to make history. We are
going to fix health care in America with your help.
God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329784" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Health_Care_Law_Signing.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Health%20Care%20Law%20Signing.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Signing Health Care Reform Bill into Law

Delivered 23 March 2010, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Today, after almost a century of trying -Today, after over a year of debate -Today, after all the votes have been tallied, health insurance reform becomes law in the
United States of America -- today.
It is fitting that Congress passed this historic legislation this week. For as we mark the turning
of spring, we also mark a new season in America. In a few moments, when I sign this bill, all
of the overheated rhetoric over reform will finally confront the reality of reform.
And while the Senate still has a last round of improvements to make on this historic legislation
-- and these are improvements I’m confident they will make swiftly -- the bill I’m signing will
set in motion reforms that generations of Americans have fought for, and marched for, and
hungered to see.
It will take four years to implement fully many of these reforms, because we need to
implement them responsibly. We need to get this right. But a host of desperately needed
reforms will take effect right away.
This year, we’ll start offering tax credits to about 4 million small businessmen and women to
help them cover the cost of insurance for their employees. That happens this year.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
This year, tens of thousands of uninsured Americans with preexisting conditions, the parents
of children who have a preexisting condition, will finally be able to purchase the coverage they
need. That happens this year.
This year, insurance companies will no longer be able to drop people’s coverage when they
get sick. They won’t be able to place lifetime limits or restrictive annual limits on the amount
of care they can receive.
This year, all new insurance plans will be required to offer free preventive care. And this year,
young adults will be able to stay on their parents’ policies until they’re 26 years old. That
happens this year.
And this year, seniors who fall in the coverage gap known as the doughnut hole will start
getting some help. They’ll receive 250 dollars to help pay for prescriptions, and that will, over
time, fill in the doughnut hole. And I want seniors to know, despite what some have said,
these reforms will not cut your guaranteed benefits. In fact, under this law, Americans on
Medicare will receive free preventive care without co-payments or deductibles. That begins
this year.
Once this reform is implemented, health insurance exchanges will be created, a competitive
marketplace where uninsured people and small businesses will finally be able to purchase
affordable, quality insurance. They will be able to be part of a big pool and get the same good
deal that members of Congress get. That’s what’s going to happen under this reform. And
when this exchange is up and running, millions of people will get tax breaks to help them
afford coverage, which represents the largest middle-class tax cut for health care in history.
That's what this reform is about.
This legislation will also lower costs for families and for businesses and for the federal
government, reducing our deficit by over one trillion dollars in the next two decades. It is paid
for. It is fiscally responsible. And it will help lift a decades-long drag on our economy. That's
part of what all of you together worked on and made happen.
That our generation is able to succeed in passing this reform is a testament to the persistence
--- and the character -- of the American people, who championed this cause; who mobilized;
who organized; who believed that people who love this country can change it.
It’s also a testament to the historic leadership -- and uncommon courage -- of the men and
women of the United States Congress, who’ve taken their lumps during this difficult debate.
AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, we did.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
THE PRESIDENT: You know, there are few tougher jobs in politics or government than leading
one of our legislative chambers. In each chamber, there are men and women who come from
different places and face different pressures, who reach different conclusions about the same
things and feel deeply concerned about different things.
By necessity, leaders have to speak to those different concerns. It isn’t always tidy; it is
almost never easy. But perhaps the greatest -- and most difficult -- challenge is to cobble
together out of those differences the sense of common interest and common purpose that’s
required to advance the dreams of all people -- especially in a country as large and diverse as
ours.
And we are blessed by leaders in each chamber who not only do their jobs very well but who
never lost sight of that larger mission. They didn’t play for the short term; they didn’t play to
the polls or to politics: One of the best speakers the House of Representatives has ever had,
Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
AUDIENCE: Nancy! Nancy! Nancy! Nancy!
THE PRESIDENT: One of the best majority leaders the Senate has ever had, Mr. Harry Reid.
To all of the terrific committee chairs, all the members of Congress who did what was difficult,
but did what was right, and passed health care reform -- not just this generation of Americans
will thank you, but the next generation of Americans will thank you.
And of course, this victory was also made possible by the painstaking work of members of this
administration, including our outstanding Secretary of Health and Human Services, Kathleen
Sebelius -- and one of the unsung heroes of this effort, an extraordinary woman who led the
reform effort from the White House, Nancy-Ann DeParle. Where’s Nancy?
Today, I’m signing this reform bill into law on behalf of my mother, who argued with insurance
companies even as she battled cancer in her final days.
I’m signing it for Ryan Smith, who’s here today. He runs a small business with five employees.
He’s trying to do the right thing, paying half the cost of coverage for his workers. This bill will
help him afford that coverage.
I’m signing it for 11-year-old Marcelas Owens, who’s also here. Marcelas lost his mom to an
illness. And she didn’t have insurance and couldn’t afford the care that she needed. So in her
memory he has told her story across America so that no other children have to go through
what his family has experienced.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’m signing it for Natoma Canfield. Natoma had to give up her health coverage after her rates
were jacked up by more than 40 percent. She was terrified that an illness would mean she’d
lose the house that her parents built, so she gave up her insurance. Now she’s lying in a
hospital bed, as we speak, faced with just such an illness, praying that she can somehow
afford to get well without insurance. Natoma’s family is here today because Natoma can’t be.
And her sister Connie is here. Connie, stand up.
I’m signing this bill for all the leaders who took up this cause through the generations -- from
Teddy Roosevelt to Franklin Roosevelt, from Harry Truman, to Lyndon Johnson, from Bill and
Hillary Clinton, to one of the deans who’s been fighting this so long, John Dingell. To Senator
Ted Kennedy. And it’s fitting that Ted’s widow, Vicki, is here -- it’s fitting that Teddy’s widow,
Vicki, is here; and his niece Caroline; his son Patrick, whose vote helped make this reform a
reality.
I remember seeing Ted walk through that door in a summit in this room a year ago -- one of
his last public appearances. And it was hard for him to make it. But he was confident that we
would do the right thing.
Our presence here today is remarkable and improbable. With all the punditry, all of the
lobbying, all of the game-playing that passes for governing in Washington, it’s been easy at
times to doubt our ability to do such a big thing, such a complicated thing; to wonder if there
are limits to what we, as a people, can still achieve. It’s easy to succumb to the sense of
cynicism about what’s possible in this country.
But today, we are affirming that essential truth -- a truth every generation is called to
rediscover for itself -- that we are not a nation that scales back its aspirations. We are not a
nation that falls prey to doubt or mistrust. We don't fall prey to fear. We are not a nation that
does what’s easy. That’s not who we are. That’s not how we got here.
We are a nation that faces its challenges and accepts its responsibilities. We are a nation that
does what is hard. What is necessary. What is right. Here, in this country, we shape our own
destiny. That is what we do. That is who we are. That is what makes us the United States of
America.
And we have now just enshrined, as soon as I sign this bill, the core principle that everybody
should have some basic security when it comes to their health care. And it is an extraordinary
achievement that has happened because of all of you and all the advocates all across the
country.
So, thank you. Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States. Thank you.
Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
All right, I would now like to call up to stage some of the members of Congress who helped
make this day possible, and some of the Americans who will benefit from these reforms. And
we’re going to sign this bill.
This is going to take a little while. I’ve got to use every pen, so it’s going to take a really long
time. I didn’t practice.
We are done.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329634" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Hispanic_Chamber_of_Commerce.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Hispanic%20Chamber%20of%20Commerce.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech to the Hispanic Chamber of Conference on Education
delivered 10 March 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Please, everybody have a seat. Thank you for the wonderful introduction, David. And thank
you for the great work that you are doing each and every day. And I appreciate such a warm
welcome. Some of you I've gotten a chance to know; many of you I'm meeting for the first
time. But the spirit of the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, the desire to create jobs and
provide opportunity to people who sometimes have been left out -- that's exactly what this
administration is about. That's the essence of the American Dream. And so I'm very proud to
have a chance to speak with all of you.
You know, every so often, throughout our history, a generation of Americans bears the
responsibility of seeing this country through difficult times and protecting the dream of its
founding for posterity. This is a responsibility that's fallen to our generation. Meeting it will
require steering our nation's economy through a crisis unlike anything that we have seen in
our time.
In the short term, that means jump-starting job creation and restarting lending, and restoring
confidence in our markets and our financial system. But it also means taking steps that not
only advance our recovery, but lay the foundation for lasting, shared prosperity.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I know there's some who believe we can only handle one challenge at a time. And they forget
that Lincoln helped lay down the transcontinental railroad and passed the Homestead Act and
created the National Academy of Sciences in the midst of civil war. Likewise, President
Roosevelt didn't have the luxury of choosing between ending a depression and fighting a war;
he had to do both. President Kennedy didn't have the luxury of choosing between civil rights
and sending us to the moon. And we don't have the luxury of choosing between getting our
economy moving now and rebuilding it over the long term.
America will not remain true to its highest ideals -- and America's place as a global economic
leader will be put at risk -- unless we not only bring down the crushing cost of health care and
transform the way we use energy, but also if we do -- if we don't do a far better job than
we've been doing of educating our sons and daughters; unless we give them the knowledge
and skills they need in this new and changing world.
For we know that economic progress and educational achievement have always gone hand in
hand in America. The land-grant colleges and public high schools transformed the economy of
an industrializing nation. The GI Bill generated a middle class that made America's economy
unrivaled in the 20th century. Investments in math and science under President Eisenhower
gave new opportunities to young scientists and engineers all across the country. It made
possible somebody like a Sergei Brin to attend graduate school and found an upstart company
called Google that would forever change our world.
The source of America's prosperity has never been merely how ably we accumulate wealth,
but how well we educate our people. This has never been more true than it is today. In a
21st-century world where jobs can be shipped wherever there's an Internet connection, where
a child born in Dallas is now competing with a child in New Delhi, where your best job
qualification is not what you do, but what you know -- education is no longer just a pathway
to opportunity and success, it's a prerequisite for success.
That's why workers without a four-year degree have borne the brunt of recent layoffs, Latinos
most of all. That's why, of the 30 fastest growing occupations in America, half require a
Bachelor's degree or more. By 2016, four out of every 10 new jobs will require at least some
advanced education or training.
So let there be no doubt: The future belongs to the nation that best educates its citizens -and my fellow Americans, we have everything we need to be that nation. We have the best
universities, the most renowned scholars. We have innovative principals and passionate
teachers and gifted students, and we have parents whose only priority is their child's
education. We have a legacy of excellence, and an unwavering belief that our children should
climb higher than we did.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And yet, despite resources that are unmatched anywhere in the world, we've let our grades
slip, our schools crumble, our teacher quality fall short, and other nations outpace us. Let me
give you a few statistics. In 8th grade math, we've fallen to 9th place. Singapore's middleschoolers outperform ours three to one. Just a third of our 13- and 14-year-olds can read as
well as they should. And year after year, a stubborn gap persists between how well white
students are doing compared to their African American and Latino classmates. The relative
decline of American education is untenable for our economy, it's unsustainable for our
democracy, it's unacceptable for our children -- and we can't afford to let it continue.
What's at stake is nothing less than the American Dream. It's what drew my father and so
many of your fathers and mothers to our shores in pursuit of an education. It's what led Linda
Brown and Gonzalo and Felicitas Mendez to bear the standard of all who were attending
separate and unequal schools. It's what has led generations of Americans to take on that
extra job, to sacrifice the small pleasures, to scrimp and save wherever they can, in hopes of
putting away enough, just enough, to give their child the education that they never had. It's
that most American of ideas, that with the right education, a child of any race, any faith, any
station, can overcome whatever barriers stand in their way and fulfill their God-given
potential.
Of course, we've heard all this year after year after year after year -- and far too little has
changed. Certainly it hasn't changed in too many overcrowded Latino schools; it hasn't
changed in too many inner-city schools that are seeing dropout rates of over 50 percent. It's
not changing not because we're lacking sound ideas or sensible plans -- in pockets of
excellence across this country, we're seeing what children from all walks of life can and will
achieve when we set high standards, have high expectations, when we do a good job of
preparing them. Instead, it's because politics and ideology have too often trumped our
progress that we're in the situation that we're in.
For decades, Washington has been trapped in the same stale debates that have paralyzed
progress and perpetuated our educational decline. Too many supporters of my party have
resisted the idea of rewarding excellence in teaching with extra pay, even though we know it
can make a difference in the classroom. Too many in the Republican Party have opposed new
investments in early education, despite compelling evidence of its importance. So what we get
here in Washington is the same old debate about it's more money versus more reform,
vouchers versus the status quo. There's been partisanship and petty bickering, but little
recognition that we need to move beyond the worn fights of the 20th century if we're going to
succeed in the 21st century.
I think you'd all agree that the time for finger-pointing is over. The time for holding us -holding ourselves accountable is here. What's required is not simply new investments, but
new reforms. It's time to expect more from our students. It's time to start rewarding good
teachers, stop making excuses for bad ones. It's time to demand results from government at
every level. It's time to prepare every child, everywhere in America, to out-compete any
worker, anywhere in the world. It's time to give all Americans a complete and competitive

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
education from the cradle up through a career. We've accepted failure for far too long. Enough
is enough. America's entire education system must once more be the envy of the world -- and
that's exactly what we intend to do.
That's exactly what the budget I'm submitting to Congress has begun to achieve. Now, at a
time when we've inherited a trillion-dollar deficit, we will start by doing a little housekeeping,
going through our books, cutting wasteful education programs. My outstanding Secretary of
Education, Arne Duncan, who's here today -- stand up, Arne, so everybody can see you. I'm
assuming you also saw my Secretary of Labor, Hilda Solis. But Secretary Duncan will use only
one test when deciding what ideas to support with your precious tax dollars: It's not whether
an idea is liberal or conservative, but whether it works. And this will help free up resources for
the first pillar of reforming our schools -- investing in early childhood initiatives.
This isn't just about keeping an eye on our children, it's about educating them. Studies show
that children in early childhood education programs are more likely to score higher in reading
and math, more likely to graduate from high school and attend college, more likely to hold a
job, and more likely to earn more in that job. For every dollar we invest in these programs,
we get nearly $10 back in reduced welfare rolls, fewer health care costs, and less crime.
That's why the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act that I signed into law invests $5
billion in growing Early Head Start and Head Start, expanding access to quality child care for
150,000 more children from working families, and doing more for children with special needs.
And that's why we are going to offer 55,000 first-time parents regular visits from trained
nurses to help make sure their children are healthy and prepare them for school and for life.
Even as we invest in early childhood education, let's raise the bar for early learning programs
that are falling short. Now, today, some children are enrolled in excellent programs. Some
children are enrolled in mediocre programs. And some are wasting away their most formative
years in bad programs. That includes the one-fourth of all children who are Hispanic, and who
will drive America's workforce of tomorrow, but who are less likely to have been enrolled in an
early childhood education program than anyone else.
That's why I'm issuing a challenge to our states: Develop a cutting-edge plan to raise the
quality of your early learning programs; show us how you'll work to ensure that children are
better prepared for success by the time they enter kindergarten. If you do, we will support
you with an Early Learning Challenge Grant that I call on Congress to enact. That's how we
will reward quality and incentivize excellence, and make a down payment on the success of
the next generation.
So that's the first pillar of our education reform agenda. The second, we will end what has
become a race to the bottom in our schools and instead spur a race to the top by encouraging
better standards and assessments. Now, this is an area where we are being outpaced by other
nations. It's not that their kids are any smarter than ours -- it's that they are being smarter
about how to educate their children.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
They're spending less time teaching things that don't matter, and more time teaching things
that do. They're preparing their students not only for high school or college, but for a career.
We are not. Our curriculum for 8th graders is two full years behind top performing countries.
That's a prescription for economic decline. And I refuse to accept that America's children
cannot rise to this challenge. They can, and they must, and they will meet higher standards in
our time.
So let's challenge our states -- let's challenge our states to adopt world-class standards that
will bring our curriculums to the 21st century. Today's system of 50 different sets of
benchmarks for academic success means 4th grade readers in Mississippi are scoring nearly
70 points lower than students in Wyoming -- and they're getting the same grade. Eight of our
states are setting their standards so low that their students may end up on par with roughly
the bottom 40 percent of the world.
That's inexcusable. That's why I'm calling on states that are setting their standards far below
where they ought to be to stop low-balling expectations for our kids. The solution to low test
scores is not lowering standards -- it's tougher, clearer standards. Standards like those in
Massachusetts, where 8th graders are -- we have a Massachusetts contingent here. In
Massachusetts, 8th graders are now tying for first -- first in the whole world in science. Other
forward-thinking states are moving in the same direction by coming together as part of a
consortium. And more states need to do the same. And I'm calling on our nation's governors
and state education chiefs to develop standards and assessments that don't simply measure
whether students can fill in a bubble on a test, but whether they possess 21st century skills
like problem-solving and critical thinking and entrepreneurship and creativity.
That is what we'll help them do later this year -- that what we're going to help them do later
this year when we finally make No Child Left Behind live up to its name by ensuring not only
that teachers and principals get the funding that they need, but that the money is tied to
results. And Arne Duncan will also back up this commitment to higher standards with a fund
to invest in innovation in our school districts.
Of course, raising standards alone will not make much of a difference unless we provide
teachers and principals with the information they need to make sure students are prepared to
meet those standards. And far too few states have data systems like the one in Florida that
keep track of a student's education from childhood through college. And far too few districts
are emulating the example of Houston and Long Beach, and using data to track how much
progress a student is making and where that student is struggling. That's a resource that can
help us improve student achievement, and tell us which students had which teachers so we
can assess what's working and what's not. That's why we're making a major investment in
this area that we will cultivate a new culture of accountability in America's schools.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, to complete our race to the top requires the third pillar of reform -- recruiting,
preparing, and rewarding outstanding teachers. From the moment students enter a school,
the most important factor in their success is not the color of their skin or the income of their
parents, it's the person standing at the front of the classroom. That's why our Recovery Act
will ensure that hundreds of thousands of teachers and school personnel are not laid off -because those Americans are not only doing jobs they can't afford to lose, they're rendering a
service our nation cannot afford to lose, either.
America's future depends on its teachers. And so today, I'm calling on a new generation of
Americans to step forward and serve our country in our classrooms. If you want to make a
difference in the life of our nation, if you want to make the most of your talents and
dedication, if you want to make your mark with a legacy that will endure -- then join the
teaching profession. America needs you. We need you in our suburbs. We need you in our
small towns. We especially need you in our inner cities. We need you in classrooms all across
our country.
And if you do your part, then we'll do ours. That's why we're taking steps to prepare teachers
for their difficult responsibilities, and encourage them to stay in the profession. That's why
we're creating new pathways to teaching and new incentives to bring teachers to schools
where they're needed most. That's why we support offering extra pay to Americans who teach
math and science to end a teacher shortage in those subjects. It's why we're building on the
promising work being done in places like South Carolina's Teachers Advancement Program,
and making an unprecedented commitment to ensure that anyone entrusted with educating
our children is doing the job as well as it can be done.
Now, here's what that commitment means: It means treating teachers like the professionals
they are while also holding them more accountable -– in up to 150 more school districts. New
teachers will be mentored by experienced ones. Good teachers will be rewarded with more
money for improved student achievement, and asked to accept more responsibilities for lifting
up their schools. Teachers throughout a school will benefit from guidance and support to help
them improve.
And just as we've given our teachers all the support they need to be successful, we need to
make sure our students have the teacher they need to be successful. And that means states
and school districts taking steps to move bad teachers out of the classroom. But let me be
clear -- Let me be clear -- the overwhelming number of teachers are doing an outstanding job
under difficult circumstances. My sister is a teacher, so I know how tough teaching can be.
But let me be clear: If a teacher is given a chance or two chances or three chances but still
does not improve, there's no excuse for that person to continue teaching. I reject a system
that rewards failure and protects a person from its consequences. The stakes are too high. We
can afford nothing but the best when it comes to our children's teachers and the schools
where they teach.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, that leads me to the fourth part of America's education strategy –- promoting innovation
and excellence in America's schools. One of the places where much of that innovation occurs
is in our most effective charter schools. And these are public schools founded by parents,
teachers, and civic or community organizations with broad leeway to innovate -– schools I
supported as a state legislator and a United States senator.
But right now, there are many caps on how many charter schools are allowed in some states,
no matter how well they're preparing our students. That isn't good for our children, our
economy, or our country. Of course, any expansion of charter schools must not result in the
spread of mediocrity, but in the advancement of excellence. And that will require states
adopting both a rigorous selection and review process to ensure that a charter school's
autonomy is coupled with greater accountability –- as well as a strategy, like the one in
Chicago, to close charter schools that are not working. Provided this greater accountability, I
call on states to reform their charter rules, and lift caps on the number of allowable charter
schools, wherever such caps are in place.
Now, even as we foster innovation in where our children are learning, let's also foster
innovation in when our children are learning. We can no longer afford an academic calendar
designed for when America was a nation of farmers who needed their children at home
plowing the land at the end of each day. That calendar may have once made sense, but today
it puts us at a competitive disadvantage. Our children -- listen to this -- our children spend
over a month less in school than children in South Korea -- every year. That's no way to
prepare them for a 21st century economy. That's why I'm calling for us not only to expand
effective after-school programs, but to rethink the school day to incorporate more time -–
whether during the summer or through expanded-day programs for children who need it.
Now, I know longer school days and school years are not wildly popular ideas. Not with Malia
and Sasha -- not in my family, and probably not in yours. But the challenges of a new century
demand more time in the classroom. If they can do that in South Korea, we can do it right
here in the United States of America.
Of course, no matter how innovative our schools or how effective our teachers, America
cannot succeed unless our students take responsibility for their own education. That means
showing up for school on time, paying attention in class, seeking out extra tutoring if it's
needed, staying out of trouble. To any student who's watching, I say this: Don't even think
about dropping out of school. Don't even think about it.
As I said a couple of weeks ago, dropping out is quitting on yourself, it's quitting on your
country, and it's not an option -- not anymore. Not when our high school dropout rate has
tripled in the past 30 years. Not when high school dropouts earn about half as much as
college graduates. Not when Latino students are dropping out faster than just about anyone
else. It's time for all of us, no matter what our backgrounds, to come together and solve this
epidemic.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Stemming the tide of dropouts will require turning around our low-performing schools. Just
2,000 high schools in cities like Detroit and Los Angeles and Philadelphia produce over 50
percent of America's dropouts. And yet there are too few proven strategies to transform these
schools. And there are too few partners to get the job done.
So today, I'm issuing a challenge to educators and lawmakers, parents and teachers alike: Let
us all make turning around our schools our collective responsibility as Americans. And that will
require new investments in innovative ideas -- that's why my budget invests in developing
new strategies to make sure at-risk students don't give up on their education; new efforts to
give dropouts who want to return to school the help they need to graduate; and new ways to
put those young men and women who have left school back on a pathway to graduation.
Now, the fifth part of America's education strategy is providing every American with a quality
higher education -– whether it's college or technical training. Never has a college degree been
more important. Never has it been more expensive. And at a time when so many of our
families are bearing enormous economic burdens, the rising cost of tuition threatens to
shatter dreams. And that's why we will simplify federal college assistance forms so it doesn't
take a Ph.D to apply for financial aid.
That's why we're already taking steps to make college or technical training affordable. For the
first time ever, Pell Grants will not be subject to the politics of the moment or the whim of the
market –- they will be a commitment that Congress is required to uphold each and every
year. Not only that; because rising costs mean Pell Grants cover less than half as much tuition
as they did 30 years ago, we're raising the maximum Pell Grant to $5,550 a year and indexing
it above inflation. We're also providing a $2,500-a-year tuition tax credit for students from
working families. And we're modernizing and expanding the Perkins Loan Program to make
sure schools like UNLV don't get a tenth as many Perkins loans as schools like Harvard.
To help pay for all of this, we're putting students ahead of lenders by eliminating wasteful
student loan subsidies that cost taxpayers billions each year. All in all, we are making college
affordable for 7 million more students with a sweeping investment in our children's futures
and America's success. And I call on Congress to join me and the American people by making
these investments possible.
This is how we will help meet our responsibility as a nation to open the doors of college to
every American. But it will also be the responsibility of colleges and universities to control
spiraling costs. We can't just keep on putting more money in and universities and colleges not
doing their part to hold down tuitions. And it's the responsibility of our students to walk
through the doors of opportunity.
In just a single generation, America has fallen from 2nd place to 11th place in the portion of
students completing college. That is unfortunate, but it's by no means irreversible. With
resolve and the right investments, we can retake the lead once more.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why, in my address to the nation the other week, I called on Americans to commit
to at least one year or more of higher education or career training, with the goal of having the
highest proportion of college graduates in the world by the year 2020. And to meet that goal,
we are investing $2.5 billion to identify and support innovative initiatives across the country
that achieve results in helping students persist and graduate.
So let's not stop at education with college. Let's recognize a 21st century reality: Learning
doesn't end in our early 20s. Adults of all ages need opportunities to earn new degrees and
new skills -- especially in the current economic environment. That means working with all our
universities and schools, including community colleges -- a great and undervalued asset -- to
prepare workers for good jobs in high-growth industries; and to improve access to job training
not only for young people who are just starting their careers, but for older workers who need
new skills to change careers. And that's going to be one of the key tasks that Secretary Solis
is involved with, is making sure that lifelong learning is a reality and a possibility for more
Americans.
It's through initiatives like these that we'll see more Americans earn a college degree, or
receive advanced training, and pursue a successful career. And that's why I'm calling on
Congress to work with me to enact these essential reforms, and to reauthorize the Workforce
Reinvestment Act. That's how we will round out a complete and competitive education in the
United States of America.
So here's the bottom line: Yes, we need more money; yes, we need more reform; yes, we
need to hold ourselves more accountable for every dollar we spend. But there's one more
ingredient I want to talk about. No government policy will make any difference unless we also
hold ourselves more accountable as parents -- because government, no matter how wise or
efficient, cannot turn off the TV or put away the video games. Teachers, no matter how
dedicated or effective, cannot make sure your child leaves for school on time and does their
homework when they get back at night. These are things only a parent can do. These are
things that our parents must do.
I say this not only as a father, but also as a son. When I was a child my mother and I lived
overseas, and she didn't have the money to send me to the fancy international school where
all the American kids went to school. So what she did was she supplemented my schooling
with lessons from a correspondence course. And I can still picture her waking me up at 4:30
a.m., five days a week, to go over some lessons before I went to school. And whenever I'd
complain and grumble and find some excuse and say, "Awww, I'm sleepy," she'd patiently
repeat to me her most powerful defense. She'd say, "This is no picnic for me either, buster."
And when you're a kid you don't think about the sacrifices they're making. She had to work; I
just had to go to school. But she'd still wake up every day to make sure I was getting what I
needed for my education.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
And it's because she did this day after day, week after week, because of all the other
opportunities and breaks that I got along the way, all the sacrifices that my grandmother and
my grandfather made along the way, that I can stand here today as President of the United
States. It's because of the sacrifices -- See, I want every child in this country to have the
same chance that my mother gave me, that my teachers gave me, that my college professors
gave me, that America gave me.
You know these stories; you've lived them, as well. All of you have a similar story to tell. You
know, it's -- I want children like Yvonne Bojorquez to have that chance. Yvonne is a student at
Village Academy High School in California. Now, Village Academy is a 21st century school
where cutting edge technologies are used in the classroom, where college prep and career
training are offered to all who seek it, and where the motto is "respect, responsibility, and
results."
Now, a couple of months ago, Yvonne and her class made a video talking about the impact
that our struggling economy was having on their lives. And some of them spoke about their
parents being laid off, or their homes facing foreclosure, or their inability to focus on school
with everything that was happening at home. And when it was her turn to speak, Yvonne
said: "We've all been affected by this economic crisis. [We] are all college bound students;
we're all businessmen, and doctors and lawyers and all this great stuff. And we have all this
potential -- but the way things are going, we're not going to be able to [fulfill it]."
It was heartbreaking that a girl so full of promise was so full of worry that she and her class
titled their video, "Is anybody listening?" So, today, there's something I want to say to
Yvonne and her class at Village Academy: I am listening. We are listening. America is
listening. And we will not rest until your parents can keep your jobs -- we will not rest until
your parents can keep their jobs and your families can keep their homes, and you can focus
on what you should be focusing on -- your own education; until you can become the
businessmen, doctors, and lawyers of tomorrow, until you can reach out and grasp your
dreams for the future.
For in the end, Yvonne's dream is a dream shared by all Americans. It's the founding promise
of our nation: That we can make of our lives what we will; that all things are possible for all
people; and that here in America, our best days lie ahead. I believe that. I truly believe if I do
my part, and you, the American people, do yours, then we will emerge from this crisis a
stronger nation, and pass the dream of our founding on to posterity, ever safer than before.
Thank you very much. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329654" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Holocaust_Days_of_Remembrance.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Holocaust%20Days%20of%20Remembrance.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Holocaust Days of Remembrance Commemoration Address

Delivered 23 April 2009, Washington, D.C.

Thank you very much. To Sara Bloomfield, for the wonderful introduction and the outstanding
work she's doing; to Fred Zeidman; Joel Geiderman; Mr. Wiesel -- thank you for your wisdom
and your witness; Speaker Nancy Pelosi; Senator Dick Durbin; members of Congress; our
good friend the Ambassador of Israel; members of the United States Holocaust Memorial
Council; and most importantly, the survivors and rescuers and their families who are here
today. It is a great honor for me to be here, and I'm grateful that I have the opportunity to
address you briefly.
We gather today to mourn the loss of so many lives, and celebrate those who saved them;
honor those who survived, and contemplate the obligations of the living.
It is the grimmest of ironies that one of the most savage, barbaric acts of evil in history began
in one of the most modernized societies of its time, where so many markers of human
progress became tools of human depravity: science that can heal used to kill; education that
can enlighten used to rationalize away basic moral impulses; the bureaucracy that sustains
modern life used as the machinery of mass death -- a ruthless, chillingly efficient system
where many were responsible for the killing, but few got actual blood on their hands.
While the uniqueness of the Holocaust in scope and in method is truly astounding, the
Holocaust was driven by many of the same forces that have fueled atrocities throughout
history: the scapegoating that leads to hatred and blinds us to our common humanity; the
justifications that replace conscience and allow cruelty to spread; the willingness of those who
are neither perpetrators nor victims to accept the assigned role of bystander, believing the lie
that good people are ever powerless or alone, the fiction that we do not have a choice.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But while we are here today to bear witness to the human capacity to destroy, we are also
here to pay tribute to the human impulse to save. In the moral accounting of the Holocaust,
as we reckon with numbers like 6 million, as we recall the horror of numbers etched into
arms, we also factor in numbers like these: 7,200 -- the number of Danish Jews ferried to
safety, many of whom later returned home to find the neighbors who rescued them had also
faithfully tended their homes and businesses and belongings while they were gone.
We remember the number five -- the five righteous men and women who join us today from
Poland. We are awed by your acts of courage and conscience. And your presence today
compels each of us to ask ourselves whether we would have done what you did. We can only
hope that the answer is yes.
We also remember the number 5,000 -- the number of Jews rescued by the villagers of Le
Chambon, France -- one life saved for each of its 5,000 residents. Not a single Jew who came
there was turned away, or turned in. But it was not until decades later that the villagers spoke
of what they had done -- and even then, only reluctantly. The author of a book on the rescue
found that those he interviewed were baffled by his interest. "How could you call us 'good'?"
they said. "We were doing what had to be done."
That is the question of the righteous -- those who would do extraordinary good at
extraordinary risk not for affirmation or acclaim or to advance their own interests, but because
it is what must be done. They remind us that no one is born a savior or a murderer -- these
are choices we each have the power to make. They teach us that no one can make us into
bystanders without our consent, and that we are never truly alone -- that if we have the
courage to heed that "still, small voice" within us, we can form a minyan for righteousness
that can span a village, even a nation.
Their legacy is our inheritance. And the question is, how do we honor and preserve it? How do
we ensure that "never again" isn't an empty slogan, or merely an aspiration, but also a call to
action?
I believe we start by doing what we are doing today -- by bearing witness, by fighting the
silence that is evil's greatest co-conspirator.
In the face of horrors that defy comprehension, the impulse to silence is understandable. My
own great uncle returned from his service in World War II in a state of shock, saying little,
alone with painful memories that would not leave his head. He went up into the attic,
according to the stories that I've heard, and wouldn't come down for six months. He was one
of the liberators -- someone who at a very tender age had seen the unimaginable. And so
some of the liberators who are here today honor us with their presence -- all of whom we
honor for their extraordinary service. My great uncle was part of the 89th Infantry Division -the first Americans to reach a Nazi concentration camp. And they liberated Ohrdruf, part of
Buchenwald, where tens of thousands had perished.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
The story goes that when the Americans marched in, they discovered the starving survivors
and the piles of dead bodies. And General Eisenhower made a decision. He ordered Germans
from the nearby town to tour the camp, so they could see what had been done in their name.
And he ordered American troops to tour the camp, so they could see the evil they were
fighting against. Then he invited congressmen and journalists to bear witness. And he ordered
that photographs and films be made. Some of us have seen those same images, whether in
the Holocaust Museum or when I visited Yad Vashem, and they never leave you. Eisenhower
said that he wanted "to be in a position to give firsthand evidence of these things, if ever, in
the future, there develops a tendency to charge these allegations merely to propaganda."
Eisenhower understood the danger of silence. He understood that if no one knew what had
happened, that would be yet another atrocity -- and it would be the perpetrators' ultimate
triumph.
What Eisenhower did to record these crimes for history is what we are doing here today.
That's what Elie Wiesel and the survivors we honor here do by fighting to make their
memories part of our collective memory. That's what the Holocaust Museum does every day
on our National Mall, the place where we display for the world our triumphs and failures and
the lessons we've learned from our history. It's the very opposite of silence.
But we must also remember that bearing witness is not the end of our obligation -- it's just
the beginning. We know that evil has yet to run its course on Earth. We've seen it in this
century in the mass graves and the ashes of villages burned to the ground, and children used
as soldiers and rape used as a weapon of war. To this day, there are those who insist the
Holocaust never happened; who perpetrate every form of intolerance -- racism and antiSemitism, homophobia, xenophobia, sexism, and more -- hatred that degrades its victim and
diminishes us all.
Today, and every day, we have an opportunity, as well as an obligation, to confront these
scourges -- to fight the impulse to turn the channel when we see images that disturb us, or
wrap ourselves in the false comfort that others' sufferings are not our own. Instead we have
the opportunity to make a habit of empathy; to recognize ourselves in each other; to commit
ourselves to resisting injustice and intolerance and indifference in whatever forms they may
take -- whether confronting those who tell lies about history, or doing everything we can to
prevent and end atrocities like those that took place in Rwanda, those taking place in Darfur.
That is my commitment as President. I hope that is yours, as well.
It will not be easy. At times, fulfilling these obligations require self-reflection. But in the final
analysis, I believe history gives us cause for hope rather than despair -- the hope of a chosen
people who have overcome oppression since the days of Exodus; of the nation of Israel rising
from the destruction of the Holocaust; of the strong and enduring bonds between our nations.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is the hope, too, of those who not only survived, but chose to live, teaching us the meaning
of courage and resilience and dignity. I'm thinking today of a study conducted after the war
that found that Holocaust survivors living in America actually had a higher birthrate than
American Jews. What a stunning act of faith -- to bring a child in a world that has shown you
so much cruelty; to believe that no matter what you have endured, or how much you have
lost, in the end, you have a duty to life.
We find cause for hope as well in Protestant and Catholic children attending school together in
Northern Ireland; in Hutus and Tutsis living side by side, forgiving neighbors who have done
the unforgivable; in a movement to save Darfur that has thousands of high school and college
chapters in 25 countries, and brought 70,000 people to the Washington Mall -- people of
every age and faith and background and race united in common cause with suffering brothers
and sisters halfway around the world.
Those numbers can be our future -- our fellow citizens of the world showing us how to make
the journey from oppression to survival, from witness to resistance, and ultimately to
reconciliation. That is what we mean when we say "never again."
So today, during this season when we celebrate liberation, resurrection, and the possibility of
redemption, may each of us renew our resolve to do what must be done. And may we strive
each day, both individually and as a nation, to be among the righteous.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329641" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Hradany_Square_Prague.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Hradany%20Square%20Prague.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at Hradcany Square in Prague

Delivered 5 April 2009, Czech Republic

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much. Thank you for this wonderful welcome. Thank you to the people of Prague. Thank you
to the people of the Czech Republic. Today, I'm proud to stand here with you in the middle of this great city,
in the center of Europe. And, to paraphrase one of my predecessors, I am also proud to be the man who
brought Michelle Obama to Prague.1
To Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, to all the dignitaries who are here, thank you for your extraordinary
hospitality. And to the people of the Czech Republic, thank you for your friendship to the United States.
I've learned over many years to appreciate the good company and the good humor of the Czech people in
my hometown of Chicago. Behind me is a statue of a hero of the Czech people -- Tomas Masaryk. In 1918,
after America had pledged its support for Czech independence, Masaryk spoke to a crowd in Chicago that
was estimated to be over 100,000. I don't think I can match his record -- but I am honored to follow his
footsteps from Chicago to Prague.
For over a thousand years, Prague has set itself apart from any other city in any other place. You've known
war and peace. You've seen empires rise and fall. You've led revolutions in the arts and science, in politics
and in poetry. Through it all, the people of Prague have insisted on pursuing their own path, and defining
their own destiny. And this city -- this Golden City which is both ancient and youthful -- stands as a living
monument to your unconquerable spirit.
When I was born, the world was divided, and our nations were faced with very different circumstances. Few
people would have predicted that someone like me would one day become the President of the United
States. Few people would have predicted that an American President would one day be permitted to speak
to an audience like this in Prague. Few would have imagined that the Czech Republic would become a free
nation, a member of NATO, a leader of a united Europe. Those ideas would have been dismissed as
dreams.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We are here today because enough people ignored the voices who told them that the world could not
change.
We're here today because of the courage of those who stood up and took risks to say that freedom is a right
for all people, no matter what side of a wall they live on, and no matter what they look like.
We are here today because of the Prague Spring -- because the simple and principled pursuit of liberty and
opportunity shamed those who relied on the power of tanks and arms to put down the will of a people.
We are here today because 20 years ago, the people of this city took to the streets to claim the promise of a
new day, and the fundamental human rights that had been denied them for far too long. Sametová Revoluce
-- the Velvet Revolution taught us many things. It showed us that peaceful protest could shake the
foundations of an empire, and expose the emptiness of an ideology. It showed us that small countries can
play a pivotal role in world events, and that young people can lead the way in overcoming old conflicts. And
it proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any weapon.
That's why I'm speaking to you in the center of a Europe that is peaceful, united and free -- because
ordinary people believed that divisions could be bridged, even when their leaders did not. They believed that
walls could come down; that peace could prevail.
We are here today because Americans and Czechs believed against all odds that today could be possible.
Now, we share this common history. But now this generation -- our generation -- cannot stand still. We, too,
have a choice to make. As the world has become less divided, it has become more interconnected. And
we've seen events move faster than our ability to control them -- a global economy in crisis, a changing
climate, the persistent dangers of old conflicts, new threats and the spread of catastrophic weapons.
None of these challenges can be solved quickly or easily. But all of them demand that we listen to one
another and work together; that we focus on our common interests, not on occasional differences; and that
we reaffirm our shared values, which are stronger than any force that could drive us apart. That is the work
that we must carry on. That is the work that I have come to Europe to begin.
To renew our prosperity, we need action coordinated across borders. That means investments to create
new jobs. That means resisting the walls of protectionism that stand in the way of growth. That means a
change in our financial system, with new rules to prevent abuse and future crisis.
And we have an obligation to our common prosperity and our common humanity to extend a hand to those
emerging markets and impoverished people who are suffering the most, even though they may have had
very little to do with financial crises, which is why we set aside over a trillion dollars for the International
Monetary Fund earlier this week, to make sure that everybody -- everybody -- receives some assistance.
Now, to protect our planet, now is the time to change the way that we use energy. Together, we must
confront climate change by ending the world's dependence on fossil fuels, by tapping the power of new
sources of energy like the wind and sun, and calling upon all nations to do their part. And I pledge to you
that in this global effort, the United States is now ready to lead.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
To provide for our common security, we must strengthen our alliance. NATO was founded 60 years ago,
after Communism took over Czechoslovakia. That was when the free world learned too late that it could not
afford division. So we came together to forge the strongest alliance that the world has ever known. And we
should -- stood shoulder to shoulder -- year after year, decade after decade -- until an Iron Curtain was
lifted, and freedom spread like flowing water.
This marks the 10th year of NATO membership for the Czech Republic. And I know that many times in the
20th century, decisions were made without you at the table. Great powers let you down, or determined your
destiny without your voice being heard. I am here to say that the United States will never turn its back on the
people of this nation. We are bound by shared values, shared history -- We are bound by shared values and
shared history and the enduring promise of our alliance. NATO's Article V states it clearly: An attack on one
is an attack on all. That is a promise for our time, and for all time.
The people of the Czech Republic kept that promise after America was attacked; thousands were killed on
our soil, and NATO responded. NATO's mission in Afghanistan is fundamental to the safety of people on
both sides of the Atlantic. We are targeting the same al Qaeda terrorists who have struck from New York to
London, and helping the Afghan people take responsibility for their future. We are demonstrating that free
nations can make common cause on behalf of our common security. And I want you to know that we honor
the sacrifices of the Czech people in this endeavor, and mourn the loss of those you've lost.
But no alliance can afford to stand still. We must work together as NATO members so that we have
contingency plans in place to deal with new threats, wherever they may come from. We must strengthen our
cooperation with one another, and with other nations and institutions around the world, to confront dangers
that recognize no borders. And we must pursue constructive relations with Russia on issues of common
concern.
Now, one of those issues that I'll focus on today is fundamental to the security of our nations and to the
peace of the world -- that's the future of nuclear weapons in the 21st century.
The existence of thousands of nuclear weapons is the most dangerous legacy of the Cold War. No nuclear
war was fought between the United States and the Soviet Union, but generations lived with the knowledge
that their world could be erased in a single flash of light. Cities like Prague that existed for centuries, that
embodied the beauty and the talent of so much of humanity, would have ceased to exist.
Today, the Cold War has disappeared but thousands of those weapons have not. In a strange turn of
history, the threat of global nuclear war has gone down, but the risk of a nuclear attack has gone up. More
nations have acquired these weapons. Testing has continued. Black market trade in nuclear secrets and
nuclear materials abound. The technology to build a bomb has spread. Terrorists are determined to buy,
build or steal one. Our efforts to contain these dangers are centered on a global non-proliferation regime,
but as more people and nations break the rules, we could reach the point where the center cannot hold.
Now, understand, this matters to people everywhere. One nuclear weapon exploded in one city -- be it New
York or Moscow, Islamabad or Mumbai, Tokyo or Tel Aviv, Paris or Prague -- could kill hundreds of
thousands of people. And no matter where it happens, there is no end to what the consequences might be -for our global safety, our security, our society, our economy, to our ultimate survival.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Some argue that the spread of these weapons cannot be stopped, cannot be checked -- that we are
destined to live in a world where more nations and more people possess the ultimate tools of destruction.
Such fatalism is a deadly adversary, for if we believe that the spread of nuclear weapons is inevitable, then
in some way we are admitting to ourselves that the use of nuclear weapons is inevitable.
Just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century, we must stand together for the right of people everywhere
to live free from fear in the 21st century. And as nuclear power -- as a nuclear power, as the only nuclear
power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral responsibility to act. We cannot
succeed in this endeavor alone, but we can lead it, we can start it.
So today, I state clearly and with conviction America's commitment to seek the peace and security of a
world without nuclear weapons. I'm not naive. This goal will not be reached quickly -- perhaps not in my
lifetime. It will take patience and persistence. But now we, too, must ignore the voices who tell us that the
world cannot change. We have to insist, "Yes, we can."
Now, let me describe to you the trajectory we need to be on. First, the United States will take concrete steps
towards a world without nuclear weapons. To put an end to Cold War thinking, we will reduce the role of
nuclear weapons in our national security strategy, and urge others to do the same. Make no mistake: As
long as these weapons exist, the United States will maintain a safe, secure and effective arsenal to deter
any adversary, and guarantee that defense to our allies -- including the Czech Republic. But we will begin
the work of reducing our arsenal.
To reduce our warheads and stockpiles, we will negotiate a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty with the
Russians this year. President Medvedev and I began this process in London, and will seek a new
agreement by the end of this year that is legally binding and sufficiently bold. And this will set the stage for
further cuts, and we will seek to include all nuclear weapons states in this endeavor.
To achieve a global ban on nuclear testing, my administration will immediately and aggressively pursue U.S.
ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty. After more than five decades of talks, it is time for the
testing of nuclear weapons to finally be banned.
And to cut off the building blocks needed for a bomb, the United States will seek a new treaty that verifiably
ends the production of fissile materials intended for use in state nuclear weapons. If we are serious about
stopping the spread of these weapons, then we should put an end to the dedicated production of weaponsgrade materials that create them. That's the first step.
Second, together we will strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty as a basis for cooperation.
The basic bargain is sound: Countries with nuclear weapons will move towards disarmament, countries
without nuclear weapons will not acquire them, and all countries can access peaceful nuclear energy. To
strengthen the treaty, we should embrace several principles. We need more resources and authority to
strengthen international inspections. We need real and immediate consequences for countries caught
breaking the rules or trying to leave the treaty without cause.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we should build a new framework for civil nuclear cooperation, including an international fuel bank, so
that countries can access peaceful power without increasing the risks of proliferation. That must be the right
of every nation that renounces nuclear weapons, especially developing countries embarking on peaceful
programs. And no approach will succeed if it's based on the denial of rights to nations that play by the rules.
We must harness the power of nuclear energy on behalf of our efforts to combat climate change, and to
advance peace opportunity for all people.
But we go forward with no illusions. Some countries will break the rules. That's why we need a structure in
place that ensures when any nation does, they will face consequences.
Just this morning, we were reminded again of why we need a new and more rigorous approach to address
this threat. North Korea broke the rules once again by testing a rocket that could be used for long range
missiles. This provocation underscores the need for action -- not just this afternoon at the U.N. Security
Council, but in our determination to prevent the spread of these weapons.
Rules must be binding. Violations must be punished. Words must mean something. The world must stand
together to prevent the spread of these weapons. Now is the time for a strong international response -- now
is the time for a strong international response, and North Korea must know that the path to security and
respect will never come through threats and illegal weapons. All nations must come together to build a
stronger, global regime. And that's why we must stand shoulder to shoulder to pressure the North Koreans
to change course.
Iran has yet to build a nuclear weapon. My administration will seek engagement with Iran based on mutual
interests and mutual respect. We believe in dialogue. But in that dialogue we will present a clear choice. We
want Iran to take its rightful place in the community of nations, politically and economically. We will support
Iran's right to peaceful nuclear energy with rigorous inspections. That's a path that the Islamic Republic can
take. Or the government can choose increased isolation, international pressure, and a potential nuclear
arms race in the region that will increase insecurity for all.
So let me be clear: Iran's nuclear and ballistic missile activity poses a real threat, not just to the United
States, but to Iran's neighbors and our allies. The Czech Republic and Poland have been courageous in
agreeing to host a defense against these missiles. As long as the threat from Iran persists, we will go
forward with a missile defense system that is cost-effective and proven. If the Iranian threat is eliminated, we
will have a stronger basis for security, and the driving force for missile defense construction in Europe will
be removed.
So, finally, we must ensure that terrorists never acquire a nuclear weapon. This is the most immediate and
extreme threat to global security. One terrorist with one nuclear weapon could unleash massive destruction.
Al Qaeda has said it seeks a bomb and that it would have no problem with using it. And we know that there
is unsecured nuclear material across the globe. To protect our people, we must act with a sense of purpose
without delay.
So today I am announcing a new international effort to secure all vulnerable nuclear material around the
world within four years. We will set new standards, expand our cooperation with Russia, pursue new
partnerships to lock down these sensitive materials.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We must also build on our efforts to break up black markets, detect and intercept materials in transit, and
use financial tools to disrupt this dangerous trade. Because this threat will be lasting, we should come
together to turn efforts such as the Proliferation Security Initiative and the Global Initiative to Combat
Nuclear Terrorism into durable international institutions. And we should start by having a Global Summit on
Nuclear Security that the United States will host within the next year.
Now, I know that there are some who will question whether we can act on such a broad agenda. There are
those who doubt whether true international cooperation is possible, given inevitable differences among
nations. And there are those who hear talk of a world without nuclear weapons and doubt whether it's worth
setting a goal that seems impossible to achieve.
But make no mistake: We know where that road leads. When nations and peoples allow themselves to be
defined by their differences, the gulf between them widens. When we fail to pursue peace, then it stays
forever beyond our grasp. We know the path when we choose fear over hope. To denounce or shrug off a
call for cooperation is an easy but also a cowardly thing to do. That's how wars begin. That's where human
progress ends.
There is violence and injustice in our world that must be confronted. We must confront it not by splitting
apart but by standing together as free nations, as free people. I know that a call to arms can stir the souls of
men and women more than a call to lay them down. But that is why the voices for peace and progress must
be raised together.
Those are the voices that still echo through the streets of Prague. Those are the ghosts of 1968. Those
were the joyful sounds of the Velvet Revolution. Those were the Czechs who helped bring down a nucleararmed empire without firing a shot.
Human destiny will be what we make of it. And here in Prague, let us honor our past by reaching for a better
future. Let us bridge our divisions, build upon our hopes, accept our responsibility to leave this world more
prosperous and more peaceful than we found it. Together we can do it.
Thank you very much. Thank you, Prague.

1

Reference to President John F. Kennedy's remark -- upon observing the overwhelmingly positive reception given his wife upon their first visit to France -as "the man who accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to Paris."

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329853" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iftar_Dinner_on_Religious_Tolerance.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iftar%20Dinner%20on%20Religious%20Tolerance.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Religions Tolerance in America: Address at Iftar Dinner
delivered 13 August 2010, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Well, welcome to the White House. To you, to Muslim Americans across our country, and to
more than one billion Muslims around the world, I extend my best wishes on this holy month.
Ramadan Kareem.
I want to welcome members of the diplomatic corps; members of my administration; and
members of Congress, including Rush Holt, John Conyers, and Andre Carson, who is one of
two Muslim American members of Congress, along with Keith Ellison. So welcome, all of you.
Here at the White House, we have a tradition of hosting iftars that goes back several years,
just as we host Christmas parties and seders and Diwali celebrations. And these events
celebrate the role of faith in the lives of the American people. They remind us of the basic
truth that we are all children of God, and we all draw strength and a sense of purpose from
our beliefs.
These events are also an affirmation of who we are as Americans. Our Founders understood
that the best way to honor the place of faith in the lives of our people was to protect their
freedom to practice religion. In the Virginia Act of Establishing Religion Freedom, Thomas
Jefferson wrote that “all men shall be free to profess, and by argument to maintain, their
opinions in matters of religion.” The First Amendment of our Constitution established the
freedom of religion as the law of the land. And that right has been upheld ever since.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Indeed, over the course of our history, religion has flourished within our borders precisely
because Americans have had the right to worship as they choose -- including the right to
believe in no religion at all. And it is a testament to the wisdom of our Founders that America
remains deeply religious -- a nation where the ability of peoples of different faiths to coexist
peacefully and with mutual respect for one another stands in stark contrast to the religious
conflict that persists elsewhere around the globe.
Now, that's not to say that religion is without controversy. Recently, attention has been
focused on the construction of mosques in certain communities -- particularly New York. Now,
we must all recognize and respect the sensitivities surrounding the development of Lower
Manhattan. The 9/11 attacks were a deeply traumatic event for our country. And the pain
and the experience of suffering by those who lost loved ones is just unimaginable. So I
understand the emotions that this issue engenders. And Ground Zero is, indeed, hallowed
ground.
But let me be clear. As a citizen, and as President, I believe that Muslims have the same right
to practice their religion as everyone else in this country. And that includes the right to build
a place of worship and a community center on private property in Lower Manhattan, in
accordance with local laws and ordinances. This is America. And our commitment to religious
freedom must be unshakeable. The principle that people of all faiths are welcome in this
country and that they will not be treated differently by their government is essential to who
we are. The writ of the Founders must endure.
We must never forget those who we lost so tragically on 9/11, and we must always honor
those who led the response to that attack -- from the firefighters who charged up smoke-filled
staircases, to our troops who are serving in Afghanistan today. And let us also remember who
we’re fighting against, and what we’re fighting for. Our enemies respect no religious
freedom. Al Qaeda’s cause is not Islam -- it’s a gross distortion of Islam. These are not
religious leaders -- they’re terrorists who murder innocent men and women and children. In
fact, al Qaeda has killed more Muslims than people of any other religion -- and that list of
victims includes innocent Muslims who were killed on 9/11.
So that's who we’re fighting against. And the reason that we will win this fight is not simply
the strength of our arms -- it is the strength of our values. The democracy that we uphold.
The freedoms that we cherish. The laws that we apply without regard to race, or religion, or
wealth, or status. Our capacity to show not merely tolerance, but respect towards those who
are different from us -- and that way of life, that quintessentially American creed, stands in
stark contrast to the nihilism of those who attacked us on that September morning, and who
continue to plot against us today.
In my inaugural address I said that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We
are a nation of Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus -- and non-believers. We are shaped
by every language and every culture, drawn from every end of this Earth. And that diversity
can bring difficult debates.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is not unique to our time. Past eras have seen controversies about the construction of
synagogues or Catholic churches. But time and again, the American people have
demonstrated that we can work through these issues, and stay true to our core values, and
emerge stronger for it. So it must be -- and will be -- today.
And tonight, we are reminded that Ramadan is a celebration of a faith known for great
diversity. And Ramadan is a reminder that Islam has always been a part of America. The first
Muslim ambassador to the United States, from Tunisia, was hosted by President Jefferson,
who arranged a sunset dinner for his guest because it was Ramadan -- making it the first
known iftar at the White House, more than 200 years ago.
Like so many other immigrants, generations of Muslims came to forge their future here. They
became farmers and merchants, worked in mills and factories. They helped lay the railroads.
They helped to build America. They founded the first Islamic center in New York City in the
1890s. They built America’s first mosque on the prairie of North Dakota. And perhaps the
oldest surviving mosque in America -- still in use today -- is in Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Today, our nation is strengthened by millions of Muslim Americans. They excel in every walk
of life. Muslim American communities -- including mosques in all 50 states -- also serve their
neighbors. Muslim Americans protect our communities as police officers and firefighters and
first responders. Muslim American clerics have spoken out against terror and extremism,
reaffirming that Islam teaches that one must save human life, not take it. And Muslim
Americans serve with honor in our military. At next week’s iftar at the Pentagon, tribute will
be paid to three soldiers who gave their lives in Iraq and now rest among the heroes of
Arlington National Cemetery.
These Muslim Americans died for the security that we depend on, and the freedoms that we
cherish. They are part of an unbroken line of Americans that stretches back to our founding;
Americans of all faiths who have served and sacrificed to extend the promise of America to
new generations, and to ensure that what is exceptional about America is protected -- our
commitment to stay true to our core values, and our ability slowly but surely to perfect our
union.
For in the end, we remain “one nation, under God, indivisible.” And we can only achieve
“liberty and justice for all” if we live by that one rule at the heart of every great religion,
including Islam -- that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us.
So thank you all for being here.
I wish you a blessed Ramadan.
And with that, let us eat.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329613" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Inaugural_Address.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Inaugural%20Address.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Presidential Inaugural Address
"What is Required: The Price and the Promise of Citizenship"
20 January 2009, U.S. Capitol Western Front, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

[Chief Justice John G. Roberts administers the Oath of Office]
I, Barack Hussein Obama, do solemnly swear that I will execute the office of the
President of the United States faithfully1, and will to the best of my ability, preserve,
protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States, so help me God.
Thank you, thank you.
My fellow citizens:
I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you've bestowed,
mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. I thank President Bush for his service to our
nation, as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential Oath. The words have been spoken
during rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every so often the Oath is
taken amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments, America has carried on
not simply because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because We the People
have remained faithful to the ideals of our forebearers [sic], and true to our founding
documents.
So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans.
That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at war, against a farreaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of
greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard
choices and prepare the nation for a new age. Homes have been lost; jobs shed; businesses
shuttered. Our health care is too costly; our schools fail too many; and each day brings
further evidence that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our
planet.
These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less measurable, but no less
profound, is a sapping of confidence across our land -- a nagging fear that America's decline is
inevitable, that the next generation must lower its sights.
Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious and they are many.
They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America: They will be
met.
On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict
and discord.
On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the
recriminations and worn out dogmas, that for far too long have strangled our politics.
We remain a young nation, but in the words of Scripture, the time has come to "set aside
childish things."2 The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit; to choose our better
history; to carry forward that precious gift, that noble idea, passed on from generation to
generation: the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free, and all deserve a chance to
pursue their full measure of happiness.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never a given. It
must be earned. Our journey has never been one of short-cuts or settling for less. It has not
been the path for the faint-hearted -- for those who prefer leisure over work, or seek only the
pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the makers of
things -- some celebrated but more often men and women obscure in their labor, who have
carried us up the long, rugged path towards prosperity and freedom.
For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of a
new life.
For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West; endured the lash of the whip and
plowed the hard earth.
For us, they fought and died, in places like Concord and Gettysburg; Normandy and Khe Sahn.
Time and again these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their hands
were raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than the sum of our
individual ambitions; greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction.
This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful nation on
Earth. Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our minds are no less
inventive, our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or
last year. Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of standing pat, of protecting
narrow interests and putting off unpleasant decisions - that time has surely passed. Starting
today, we must pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of remaking
America.
For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of our economy calls for action,
bold and swift, and we will act -- not only to create new jobs, but to lay a new foundation for
growth. We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and digital lines that feed our
commerce and bind us together. We will restore science to its rightful place, and wield
technology's wonders to raise health care's quality and lower its cost. We will harness the sun
and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform our
schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age.
All this we can do.
All this we will do.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions -- who suggest that our system
cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short. For they have forgotten what
this country has already done; what free men and women can achieve when imagination is
joined to common purpose, and necessity to courage.
What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them -- that the
stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply. The question we
ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small, but whether it works -whether it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford, a retirement that is
dignified. Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. Where the answer is no,
programs will end. And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account -to spend wisely, reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day -- because only
then can we restore the vital trust between a people and their government.
Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its power to
generate wealth and expand freedom is unmatched, but this crisis has reminded us that
without a watchful eye, the market can spin out of control. The nation cannot prosper long
when it favors only the prosperous. The success of our economy has always depended not just
on the size of our Gross Domestic Product, but on the reach of our prosperity; on the ability to
extend opportunity to every willing heart -- not out of charity, but because it is the surest
route to our common good.
As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals.
Our Founding Fathers -- Our Founding Fathers, faced with perils that we can scarcely imagine,
drafted a charter to assure the rule of law and the rights of man, a charter expanded by the
blood of generations. Those ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for
expedience'[s] sake. And so to all the other peoples and governments who are watching
today, from the grandest capitals to the small village where my father was born: Know that
America is a friend of each nation and every man, woman, and child who seeks a future of
peace and dignity. And we are ready to lead once more.
Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and
tanks, but with the sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood that our power
alone cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please. Instead, they knew that our
power grows through its prudent use; our security emanates from the justness of our cause,
the force of our example, the tempering qualities of humility and restraint.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We are the keepers of this legacy. Guided by these principles once more, we can meet those
new threats that demand even greater effort -- even greater cooperation and understanding
between nations. We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people, and forge a hardearned peace in Afghanistan. With old friends and former foes, we will work tirelessly to
lessen the nuclear threat, and roll back the specter of a warming planet. We will not apologize
for our way of life, nor will we waver in its defense, and for those who seek to advance their
aims by inducing terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that our spirit is
stronger and cannot be broken. You cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you!
For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of
Christians and Muslims, Jews and Hindus -- and non-believers. We are shaped by every
language and culture, drawn from every end of this Earth; and because we have tasted the
bitter swill of civil war and segregation, and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and
more united, we cannot help but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass; that the
lines of tribe shall soon dissolve; that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall
reveal itself; and that America must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace.
To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and mutual
respect. To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict, or blame their society's
ills on the West -- know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you
destroy. To those -- To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the
silencing of dissent, know that you are on the wrong side of history; but that we will extend a
hand if you are willing to unclench your fist.
To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish
and let clean waters flow; to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds. And to those
nations like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford indifference to the
suffering outside our borders; nor can we consume the world's resources without regard to
effect. For the world has changed, and we must change with it.
As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude those
brave Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains. They
have something to tell us, just as the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the
ages. We honor them not only because they are the guardians of our liberty, but because they
embody the spirit of service; a willingness to find meaning in something greater than
themselves. And yet, at this moment -- a moment that will define a generation -- it is
precisely this spirit that must inhabit us all.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
For as much as government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and determination of
the American people upon which this nation relies. It is the kindness to take in a stranger
when the levees break, the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see
a friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage
to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child, that
finally decides our fate.
Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new. But
those values upon which our success depends -- honesty and hard work, courage and fair
play, tolerance and curiosity, loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old. These things are
true. They have been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded
then is a return to these truths. What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility -- a
recognition, on the part of every American, that we have duties to ourselves, our nation, and
the world, duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly, firm in the
knowledge that there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our character, than
giving our all to a difficult task.
This is the price and the promise of citizenship.
This is the source of our confidence -- the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an
uncertain destiny.
This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed -- why men and women and children of every
race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall, and why a man
whose father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can
now stand before you to take a most sacred Oath.
So let us mark this day with remembrance, of who we are and how far we have traveled. In
the year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of patriots huddled by
dying campfires on the shores of an icy river. The Capitol was abandoned. The enemy was
advancing. The snow was stained with blood. At a moment when the outcome of our
revolution was most in doubt, the father of our nation ordered these words be read to the
people:
Let it be told to the future world...that in the depth of winter, when nothing but hope
and virtue could survive...that the city and the country, alarmed at one common
danger, came forth to meet [it].

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
America: In the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let us remember
these timeless words. With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents, and
endure what storms may come. Let it be said by our children's children that when we were
tested we refused to let this journey end, that we did not turn back nor did we falter; and with
eyes fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom
and delivered it safely to future generations.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

1

A deviation from the orthodox syntactical order "...faithfully execute the office....", prompted by Justice Roberts, and,
with some hesitation -- and additional awkward fumbling by Justice Roberts -- followed by President-elect Obama.

2

Paul the Apostle, 1 Corinthians 13:11: "When I was a child, I spoke as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a
child; but when I became a man, I put away childish things."

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/10/21

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329864" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Indian_Parliament.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Indian%20Parliament.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to a Joint Session of the Indian Parliament

Delivered 8 November, 2010, New Delhi, India

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio and edited for continuity

Mr. Vice President, Madam Speaker, Mr. Prime Minister, members of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha, and
most of all, the people of India.
I thank you for the great honor of addressing the representatives of more than one billion Indians and the
world’s largest democracy. I bring the greetings and friendship of the world’s oldest democracy -- the United
States of America, including nearly three million proud and patriotic Indian-Americans.
Over the past three days, my wife Michelle and I have experienced the -- and dynamism of India and its
people -- from the majesty of Humayun’s Tomb to the advanced technologies that are empowering farmers
and women who are the backbone of Indian society; from the Diwali celebrations with schoolchildren to the
innovators who are fueling India’s economic rise; from the university students who will chart India’s future, to
you -- leaders who helped to bring India to this moment of extraordinary promise.
At every stop, we have been welcomed with the hospitality for which Indians have always been known. So,
to you and the people of India, on behalf of me, Michelle and the American people, please accept my
deepest thanks. Bahoot dhanyavad.
Now, I am not the first American President to visit India. Nor will I be the last. But I am proud to visit India
so early in my presidency. It’s no coincidence that India is my first stop on a visit to Asia, or that this has
been my longest visit to another country since becoming President. For in Asia and around the world, India
is not simply emerging; India has emerged.
And it is my firm belief that the relationship between the United States and India -- bound by our shared
interests and our shared values -- will be one of the defining partnerships of the 21st century. This is the
partnership I’ve come here to build. This is the vision that our nations can realize together.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
My confidence in our shared future is grounded in my respect for India’s treasured past -- a civilization that’s
been shaping the world for thousands of years. Indians unlocked the intricacies of the human body and the
vastness of our universe. It’s no exaggeration to say that our Information Age is rooted in Indian innovations
-- including the number zero.
Of course, India not only opened our minds, she expanded our moral imaginations -- with religious texts that
still summon the faithful to lives of dignity and discipline, with poets who imagined a future “where the mind
is without fear and the head is held high” -- and with a man whose message of love and justice endures -the father of your nation, Mahatma Gandhi.
For me and Michelle, this visit has, therefore, held special meaning. See, throughout my life, including my
work as a young man on behalf of the urban poor, I’ve always found inspiration in the life of Gandhiji and his
simple and profound lesson to be the change we seek in the world. And just as he summoned Indians to
seek their destiny, he influenced champions of equality in my own country, including a young preacher
named Martin Luther King. After making his pilgrimage to India a half-century ago, Dr. King called Gandhi’s
philosophy of non-violent resistance “the only logical and moral approach” in the struggle for justice and
progress.
So we were honored to visit the residence where Gandhi and King both stayed -- Mani Bhavan. And we
were humbled to pay our respects at Raj Ghat. And I am mindful that I might not be standing before you
today, as President of the United States, had it not been for Gandhi and the message he shared and
inspired with America and the world.
An ancient civilization of science and innovation; a fundamental faith in human progress -- this is the sturdy
foundation upon which you have built ever since that stroke of midnight when the tricolor was raised over a
free and independent India. And despite the skeptics who said this country was simply too poor, or too vast,
or too diverse to succeed, you surmounted overwhelming odds and became a model to the world.
Instead of slipping into starvation, you launched a Green Revolution that fed millions. Instead of becoming
dependent on commodities and exports, you invested in science and technology and in your greatest
resource -- the Indian people. And the world sees the results, from the supercomputers you build to the
Indian flag that you put on the moon.
Instead of resisting the global economy, you became one of its engines -- reforming the licensing raj and
unleashing an economic marvel that has lifted tens of millions of people from poverty and created one of the
world’s largest middle classes.
Instead of succumbing to division, you have shown that the strength of India -- the very idea of India -- is its
embrace of all colors, all castes, all creeds. It’s the diversity represented in this chamber today. It’s the
richness of faiths celebrated by a visitor to my hometown of Chicago more than a century ago -- the
renowned Swami Vivekananda. He said that, “holiness, purity and charity are not the exclusive possessions
of any church in the world, and that every system has produced men and women of the most exalted
character.”

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And instead of being lured by the false notion that progress must come at the expense of freedom, you built
the institutions upon which true democracy depends -- free and fair elections, which enable citizens to
choose their own leaders without recourse to arms -- an independent judiciary and the rule of law, which
allows people to address their grievances; and a thriving free press and vibrant civil society which allows
every voice to be heard. This year, as India marks 60 years with a strong and democratic constitution, the
lesson is clear: India has succeeded, not in spite of democracy; India has succeeded because of
democracy.
Now, just as India has changed, so, too, has the relationship between our two nations. In the decades after
independence, India advanced its interests as a proud leader of the nonaligned movement. Yet, too often,
the United States and India found ourselves on opposite sides of a North-`South divide, estranged by a long
Cold War. Those days are over.
Here in India, two successive governments led by different parties have recognized that deeper partnership
with America is both natural and necessary. And in the United States, both of my predecessors -- one a
Democrat, one a Republican -- worked to bring us closer, leading to increased trade and a landmark civil
nuclear agreement.
So since that time, people in both our countries have asked: What’s next? How can we build on this
progress and realize the full potential of our partnership? That’s what I want to address today -- the future
that the United States seeks in an interconnected world, and why I believe that India is indispensable to this
vision; how we can forge a truly global partnership -- not just in one or two areas, but across many; not just
for our mutual benefit, but for the benefit of the world.
Of course, only Indians can determine India’s national interests and how to advance them on the world
stage. But I stand before you today because I am convinced that the interests of the United States -- and
the interests we share with India -- are best advanced in partnership. I believe that.
The United States seeks security -- the security of our country, our allies and partners. We seek prosperity - a strong and growing economy in an open international economic system. We seek respect for universal
values. And we seek a just and sustainable international order that promotes peace and security by
meeting global challenges through stronger global cooperation.
Now, to advance these interests, I have committed the United States to comprehensive engagement with
the world, based on mutual interest and mutual respect. And a central pillar of this engagement is forging
deeper cooperation with 21st century centers of influence -- and that must necessarily include India.
Now, India is not the only emerging power in the world. But relationships between our countries is unique.
For we are two strong democracies whose constitutions begin with the same revolutionary words -- the
same revolutionary words -- “We the people.” We are two great republics dedicated to the liberty and justice
and equality of all people. And we are two free market economies where people have the freedom to
pursue ideas and innovation that can change the world. And that’s why I believe that India and America are
indispensable partners in meeting the challenges of our time.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Since taking office, I’ve, therefore, made our relationship a priority. I was proud to welcome Prime Minister
Singh for the first official state visit of my presidency. For the first time ever, our governments are working
together across the whole range of common challenges that we face. Now, let me say it as clearly as I can:
The United States not only welcomes India as a rising global power, we fervently support it, and we have
worked to help make it a reality.
Together with our partners, we have made the G20 the premier forum for international economic
cooperation, bringing more voices to the table of global economic decision-making, and that has included
India. We’ve increased the role of emerging economies like India at international financial institutions. We
valued India’s important role at Copenhagen, where, for the first time, all major economies committed to
take action to confront climate change -- and to stand by those actions. We salute India’s long history as a
leading contributor to United Nations peacekeeping missions. And we welcome India as it prepares to take
its seat on the United Nations Security Council.
In short, with India assuming its rightful place in the world, we have an historic opportunity to make the
relationship between our two countries a defining partnership of the century ahead. And I believe we can do
so by working together in three important areas.
First, as global partners we can promote prosperity in both our countries. Together, we can create the hightech, high-wage jobs of the future. With my visit, we are now ready to begin implementing our civil nuclear
agreement. This will help meet India’s growing energy needs and create thousands of jobs in both of our
countries.
We need to forge partnerships in high-tech sectors like defense and civil space. So we’ve removed Indian
organizations from our so-called “entity list.” And we’ll work to remove -- and reform our controls on
exports. Both of these steps will ensure that Indian companies seeking high-tech trade and technologies
from America are treated the same as our very closest allies and partners.
We can pursue joint research and development to create green jobs; give India more access to cleaner,
affordable energy; meet the commitments we made at Copenhagen; and show the possibilities of lowcarbon growth.
And together, we can resist the protectionism that stifles growth and innovation. The United States remains
-- and will continue to remain -- one of the most open economies in the world. And by opening markets and
reducing barriers to foreign investment, India can realize its full economic potential as well. As G20
partners, we can make sure the global economic recovery is strong and is durable. And we can keep
striving for a Doha Round that is ambitious and is balanced -- with the courage to make the compromises
that are necessary so global trade works for all economies.
Together, we can strengthen agriculture. Cooperation between Indian and American researchers and
scientists sparked the Green Revolution. Today, India is a leader in using technology to empower farmers,
like those I met yesterday who get free updates on market and weather conditions on their cell phones. And
the United States is a leader in agricultural productivity and research. Now, as farmers and rural areas face
the effects of climate change and drought, we’ll work together to spark a second, more sustainable
Evergreen Revolution.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Together, we’re improving Indian weather forecasting systems before the next monsoon season. We aim to
help millions of Indian farmers -- farming households save water and increase productivity, improve food
processing so crops don’t spoil on the way to market, and enhance climate and crop forecasting to avoid
losses that cripple communities and drive up food prices.
And as part of our food security initiative, we’re going to share India’s expertise with farmers in Africa. And
this is an indication of India’s rise -- that we can now export hard-earned expertise to countries that see
India as a model for agricultural development. It’s another powerful example of how American and Indian
partnership can address an urgent global challenge.
Because the wealth of a nation also depends on the health of its people, we’ll continue to support India’s
effort against diseases like tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS, and as global partners, we’ll work to improve global
health by preventing the spread of pandemic flu. And because knowledge is the currency of the 21st
century, we will increase exchanges between our students, our colleges and our universities, which are
among the best in the world.
As we work to advance our shared prosperity, we can partner to address a second priority -- and that is our
shared security. In Mumbai, I met with the courageous families and survivors of that barbaric attack. And
here in Parliament, which was itself targeted because of the democracy it represents, we honor the memory
of all those who have been taken from us, including American citizens on 26/11 and Indian citizens on 9/11.
This is the bond that we share. It’s why we insist that nothing ever justifies the slaughter of innocent men,
women and children. It’s why we’re working together, more closely than ever, to prevent terrorist attacks
and to deepen our cooperation even further. And it’s why, as strong and resilient societies, we refuse to live
in fear. We will not sacrifice the values and rule of law that defines us, and we will never waver in the
defense of our people.
America’s fight against al Qaeda and its terrorist affiliates is why we persevere in Afghanistan, where major
development assistance from India has improved the lives of the Afghan people. We’re making progress in
our mission to break the Taliban’s momentum and to train Afghan forces so they can take the lead for their
security. And while I have made it clear that American forces will begin the transition to Afghan
responsibility next summer, I’ve also made it clear that America’s commitment to the Afghan people will
endure. The United States will not abandon the people of Afghanistan -- or the region -- to violent
extremists who threaten us all.
Our strategy to disrupt and dismantle and defeat al Qaeda and its affiliates has to succeed on both sides of
the border. And that’s why we have worked with the Pakistani government to address the threat of terrorist
networks in the border region. The Pakistani government increasingly recognizes that these networks are
not just a threat outside of Pakistan -- they are a threat to the Pakistani people, as well. They’ve suffered
greatly at the hands of violent extremists over the last several years.
And we’ll continue to insist to Pakistan's leaders that terrorist safe havens within their borders are
unacceptable, and that terrorists behind the Mumbai attacks must be brought to justice. We must also
recognize that all of us have an interest in both an Afghanistan and a Pakistan that is stable and prosperous
and democratic -- and India has an interest in that, as well.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
In pursuit of regional security, we will continue to welcome dialogue between India and Pakistan, even as
we recognize that disputes between your two countries can only be resolved by the people of your two
countries.
More broadly, India and the United States can partner in Asia. Today, the United States is once again
playing a leadership role in Asia -- strengthening old alliances; deepening relationships, as we are doing
with China; and we’re reengaging with regional organizations like ASEAN and joining the East Asia summit - organizations in which India is also a partner. Like your neighbors in Southeast Asia, we want India not
only to “look East,” we want India to “engage East” -- because it will increase the security and prosperity of
all our nations.
As two global leaders, the United States and India can partner for global security -- especially as India
serves on the Security Council over the next two years. Indeed, the just and sustainable international order
that America seeks includes a United Nations that is efficient, effective, credible and legitimate. That is why
I can say today, in the years ahead, I look forward to a reformed United Nations Security Council that
includes India as a permanent member.
Now, let me suggest that with increased power comes increased responsibility. The United Nations exists
to fulfill its founding ideals of preserving peace and security, promoting global cooperation, and advancing
human rights. These are the responsibilities of all nations, but especially those that seek to lead in the 21st
century. And so we look forward to working with India -- and other nations that aspire to Security Council
membership -- to ensure that the Security Council is effective; that resolutions are implemented, that
sanctions are enforced; that we strengthen the international norms which recognize the rights and
responsibilities of all nations and all individuals.
This includes our responsibility to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons. Since I took office, the United
States has reduced the role of nuclear weapons in our national security strategy, and we've agreed with
Russia to reduce our own arsenals. We have put preventing nuclear proliferation and nuclear terrorism at
the top of our nuclear agenda, and we have strengthened the cornerstone of the global non-proliferation
regime, which is the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
Together, the United States and India can pursue our goal of securing the world’s vulnerable nuclear
materials. We can make it clear that even as every nation has the right to peaceful nuclear energy, every
nation must also meet its international obligations -- and that includes the Islamic Republic of Iran. And
together, we can pursue a vision that Indian leaders have espoused since independence -- a world without
nuclear weapons.
And this leads me to the final area where our countries can partner -- strengthening the foundations of
democratic governance, not only at home but abroad.
In the United States, my administration has worked to make government more open and transparent and
accountable to people. Here in India, you’re harnessing technologies to do the same, as I saw yesterday at
an expo in Mumbai. Your landmark Right to Information Act is empowering citizens with the ability to get the
services to which they’re entitled -- and to hold officials accountable.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Voters can get information about candidates by text message. And you’re delivering education and health
care services to rural communities, as I saw yesterday when I joined an e-panchayat with villagers in
Rajasthan.
Now, in a new collaboration on open government, our two countries are going to share our experience,
identify what works, and develop the next generation of tools to empower citizens. And in another example
of how American and Indian partnership can address global challenges, we’re going to share these
innovations with civil society groups and countries around the world. We’re going to show that democracy,
more than any other form of government, delivers for the common man -- and woman.
Likewise, when Indians vote, the whole world watches. Thousands of political parties; hundreds of
thousands of polling centers; millions of candidates and poll workers -- and 700 million voters. There’s
nothing like it on the planet. There is so much that countries transitioning to democracy could learn from
India’s experience, so much expertise that India can share with the world. And that, too, is what is possible
when the world’s largest democracy embraces its role as a global leader.
As the world’s two largest democracies, we must never forget that the price of our own freedom is standing
up for the freedom of others. Indians know this, for it is the story of your nation. Before he ever began his
struggle for Indian independence, Gandhi stood up for the rights of Indians in South Africa. Just as others,
including the United States, supported Indian independence, India championed the self-determination of
peoples from Africa to Asia as they, too, broke free from colonialism. And along with the United States,
you’ve been a leader in supporting democratic development and civil society groups around the world. And
this, too, is part of India’s greatness.
Now, we all understand every country will follow its own path. No one nation has a monopoly on wisdom,
and no nation should ever try to impose its values on another. But when peaceful democratic movements
are suppressed -- as they have been in Burma, for example -- then the democracies of the world cannot
remain silent. For it is unacceptable to gun down peaceful protestors and incarcerate political prisoners
decade after decade. It is unacceptable to hold the aspirations of an entire people hostage to the greed and
paranoia of bankrupt regimes. It is unacceptable to steal elections, as the regime in Burma has done again
for all the world to see.
Faced with such gross violations of human rights, it is the responsibility of the international community -especially leaders like the United States and India -- to condemn it. And if I can be frank, in international
fora, India has often shied away from some of these issues. But speaking up for those who cannot do so for
themselves is not interfering in the affairs of other countries. It’s not violating the rights of sovereign
nations. It is staying true to our democratic principles. It is giving meaning to the human rights that we say
are universal. And it sustains the progress that in Asia and around the world has helped turn dictatorships
into democracies and ultimately increased our security in the world.
So promoting shared prosperity, preserving peace and security, strengthening democratic governance and
human rights -- these are the responsibilities of leadership. And as global partners, this is the leadership
that the United States and India can offer in the 21st century. Ultimately, though, this cannot be a
relationship only between presidents and prime ministers, or in the halls of this Parliament. Ultimately, this
must be a partnership between our peoples. So I want to conclude by speaking directly to the people of
India who are watching today.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
In your lives, you have overcome odds that might have overwhelmed a lesser country. In just decades, you
have achieved progress and development that took other nations centuries. You are now assuming your
rightful place as a leader among nations. Your parents and grandparents imagined this. Your children and
grandchildren will look back on this. But only this generation of Indians can seize the possibilities of the
moment.
As you carry on with the hard work ahead, I want every Indian citizen to know: The United States of
America will not simply be cheering you on from the sidelines. We will be right there with you, shoulder to
shoulder. Because we believe in the promise of India. We believe that the future is what we make it. We
believe that no matter who you are or where you come from, every person can fulfill their God-given
potential, just as a Dalit like Dr. Ambedkar could lift himself up and pen the words of the constitution that
protects the rights of all Indians.
We believe that no matter where you live -- whether a village in Punjab or the bylanes of Chandni Chowk -an old section of Kolkata or a new high-rise in Bangalore -- every person deserves the same chance to live
in security and dignity, to get an education, to find work, to give their children a better future.
And we believe that when countries and cultures put aside old habits and attitudes that keep people apart,
when we recognize our common humanity, then we can begin to fulfill these aspirations that we share. It’s a
simple lesson contained in that collection of stories which has guided Indians for centuries -- the
Panchtantra. And it’s the spirit of the inscription seen by all who enter this great hall: “That one is mine and
the other a stranger is the concept of little minds. But to the large-hearted, the world itself is their family.”
This is the story of India; this is the story of America -- that despite their differences, people can see
themselves in one another, and work together and succeed together as one proud nation. And it can be the
spirit of partnership between our nations -- that even as we honor the histories which in different times kept
us apart, even as we preserve what makes us unique in a globalized world, we can recognize how much we
can achieve together.
And if we let this simple concept be our guide, if we pursue the vision I’ve described today -- a global
partnership to meet global challenges -- then I have no doubt that future generations -- Indians and
Americans -- will live in a world that is more prosperous and more secure and more just because of the
bonds that our generation has forged today.
So, thank you, and Jai Hind. And long live the partnership between India and the United States.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329866" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Indonesia_University.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Indonesia%20University.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to Students at the University of Indonesia
delivered 10 November 2010, Jakarta, Indonesia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Selamat pagi. [Good morning.] It is wonderful to be here at the University of Indonesia. To
the faculty and the staff and the students, and to Dr. Gumilar Rusliwa Somantri, thank you so
much for your hospitality.
Assalamualaikum dan salam sejahtera. [Peace be upon you and may God be with you.] Thank
you for this wonderful welcome. Thank you to the people of Jakarta and thank you to the
people of Indonesia.
Pulang kampung nih. [Back to/in my hometown]. I am so glad that I made it back to
Indonesia and that Michelle was able to join me. We had a couple of false starts this year, but
I was determined to visit a country that’s meant so much to me. And unfortunately, this visit
is too short, but I look forward to coming back a year from now when Indonesia hosts the
East Asia Summit.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Before I go any further, I want to say that our thoughts and prayers are with all of those
Indonesians who are affected by the recent tsunami and the volcanic eruptions -- particularly
those who’ve lost loved ones, and those who’ve been displaced. And I want you all to know
that as always, the United States stands with Indonesia in responding to natural disasters,
and we are pleased to be able to help as needed. As neighbors help neighbors and families
take in the displaced, I know that the strength and the resilience of the Indonesian people will
pull you through once more.
Let me begin with a simple statement: Indonesia bagian dari didi saya. I first came to this
country when my mother married an Indonesian named Lolo Soetoro. And as a young boy I
was -- as a young boy I was coming to a different world. But the people of Indonesia quickly
made me feel at home.
Jakarta -- now, Jakarta looked very different in those days. The city was filled with buildings
that were no more than a few stories tall. This was back in 1967, ‘68 -- most of you weren’t
born yet. The Hotel Indonesia was one of the few high rises, and there was just one big
department store called Sarinah. That was it. Betchaks and bemos, that’s how you got
around. They outnumbered automobiles in those days. And you didn’t have all the big
highways that you have today. Most of them gave way to unpaved roads and the kampongs.
So we moved to Menteng Dalam, where -- hey, some folks from Menteng Dalam right here.
And we lived in a small house. We had a mango tree out front. And I learned to love
Indonesia while flying kites and running along the paddy fields and catching dragonflies,
buying satay and baso from the street vendors. I still remember the call of the vendors.
Satay! I remember that. Baso! But most of all, I remember the people -- the old men and
women who welcomed us with smiles; the children who made a foreign child feel like a
neighbor and a friend; and the teachers who helped me learn about this country.
Because Indonesia is made up of thousands of islands, and hundreds of languages, and people
from scores of regions and ethnic groups, my time here helped me appreciate the common
humanity of all people. And while my stepfather, like most Indonesians, was raised a Muslim,
he firmly believed that all religions were worthy of respect. And in this way -- in this way he
reflected the spirit of religious tolerance that is enshrined in Indonesia’s Constitution, and that
remains one of this country’s defining and inspiring characteristics.
Now, I stayed here for four years -- a time that helped shape my childhood; a time that saw
the birth of my wonderful sister, Maya; a time that made such an impression on my mother
that she kept returning to Indonesia over the next 20 years to live and to work and to travel - and to pursue her passion of promoting opportunity in Indonesia’s villages, especially
opportunity for women and for girls. And I was so honored -- I was so honored when
President Yudhoyono last night at the state dinner presented an award on behalf of my
mother, recognizing the work that she did. And she would have been so proud, because my
mother held Indonesia and its people very close to her heart for her entire life.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So much has changed in the four decades since I boarded a plane to move back to Hawaii. If
you asked me -- or any of my schoolmates who knew me back then -- I don’t think any of us
could have anticipated that one day I would come back to Jakarta as the President of the
United States. And few could have anticipated the remarkable story of Indonesia over these
last four decades.
The Jakarta that I once knew has grown into a teeming city of nearly 10 million, with
skyscrapers that dwarf the Hotel Indonesia, and thriving centers of culture and of commerce.
While my Indonesian friends and I used to run in fields with water buffalo and goats -- a new
generation of Indonesians is among the most wired in the world -- connected through cell
phones and social networks. And while Indonesia as a young nation focused inward, a growing
Indonesia now plays a key role in the Asia Pacific and in the global economy.
Now, this change also extends to politics. When my stepfather was a boy, he watched his
own father and older brother leave home to fight and die in the struggle for Indonesian
independence. And I’m happy to be here on Heroes Day to honor the memory of so many
Indonesians who have sacrificed on behalf of this great country.
When I moved to Jakarta, it was 1967, and it was a time that had followed great suffering and
conflict in parts of this country. And even though my stepfather had served in the Army, the
violence and killing during that time of political upheaval was largely unknown to me because
it was unspoken by my Indonesian family and friends. In my household, like so many others
across Indonesia, the memories of that time were an invisible presence. Indonesians had
their independence, but oftentimes they were afraid to speak their minds about issues.
In the years since then, Indonesia has charted its own course through an extraordinary
democratic transformation -- from the rule of an iron fist to the rule of the people. In recent
years, the world has watched with hope and admiration as Indonesians embraced the peaceful
transfer of power and the direct election of leaders. And just as your democracy is symbolized
by your elected President and legislature, your democracy is sustained and fortified by its
checks and balances: a dynamic civil society; political parties and unions; a vibrant media
and engaged citizens who have ensured that -- in Indonesia -- there will be no turning back
from democracy.
But even as this land of my youth has changed in so many ways, those things that I learned
to love about Indonesia -- that spirit of tolerance that is written into your Constitution;
symbolized in mosques and churches and temples standing alongside each other; that spirit
that’s embodied in your people -- that still lives on. Bhinneka Tunggal Ika -- unity in
diversity. This is the foundation of Indonesia’s example to the world, and this is why Indonesia
will play such an important part in the 21st century.
So today, I return to Indonesia as a friend, but also as a President who seeks a deep and
enduring partnership between our two countries. Because as vast and diverse countries; as
neighbors on either side of the Pacific; and above all as democracies -- the United States and
Indonesia are bound together by shared interests and shared values.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Yesterday, President Yudhoyono and I announced a new Comprehensive Partnership between
the United States and Indonesia. We are increasing ties between our governments in many
different areas, and -- just as importantly -- we are increasing ties among our people. This is
a partnership of equals, grounded in mutual interests and mutual respect.
So with the rest of my time today, I’d like to talk about why the story I just told -- the story of
Indonesia since the days when I lived here -- is so important to the United States and to the
world. I will focus on three areas that are closely related, and fundamental to human
progress -- development, democracy and religious faith.
First, the friendship between the United States and Indonesia can advance our mutual interest
in development.
When I moved to Indonesia, it would have been hard to imagine a future in which the
prosperity of families in Chicago and Jakarta would be connected. But our economies are now
global, and Indonesians have experienced both the promise and the perils of globalization:
from the shock of the Asian financial crisis in the ‘90s, to the millions lifted out of poverty
because of increased trade and commerce. What that means -- and what we learned in the
recent economic crisis -- is that we have a stake in each other’s success.
America has a stake in Indonesia growing and developing, with prosperity that is broadly
shared among the Indonesian people -- because a rising middle class here in Indonesia means
new markets for our goods, just as America is a market for goods coming from Indonesia. So
we are investing more in Indonesia, and our exports have grown by nearly 50 percent, and we
are opening doors for Americans and Indonesians to do business with one another.
America has a stake in an Indonesia that plays its rightful role in shaping the global economy.
Gone are the days when seven or eight countries would come together to determine the
direction of global markets. That’s why the G20 is now the center of international economic
cooperation, so that emerging economies like Indonesia have a greater voice and also bear
greater responsibility for guiding the global economy. And through its leadership of the G20’s
anti-corruption group, Indonesia should lead on the world stage and by example in embracing
transparency and accountability.
America has a stake in an Indonesia that pursues sustainable development, because the way
we grow will determine the quality of our lives and the health of our planet. And that’s why
we’re developing clean energy technologies that can power industry and preserve Indonesia’s
precious natural resources -- and America welcomes your country’s strong leadership in the
global effort to combat climate change.
Above all, America has a stake in the success of the Indonesian people. Underneath the
headlines of the day, we must build bridges between our people, because our future security
and prosperity is shared. And that is exactly what we’re doing -- by increasing collaboration
among our scientists and researchers, and by working together to foster entrepreneurship.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I’m especially pleased that we have committed to double the number of American and
Indonesian students studying in our respective countries. We want more Indonesian students
in American schools, and we want more American students to come study in this country. We
want to forge new ties and greater understanding between young people in this young
century.
These are the issues that really matter in our daily lives. Development, after all, is not simply
about growth rates and numbers on a balance sheet. It’s about whether a child can learn the
skills they need to make it in a changing world. It’s about whether a good idea is allowed to
grow into a business, and not suffocated by corruption. It’s about whether those forces that
have transformed the Jakarta I once knew -- technology and trade and the flow of people and
goods -- can translate into a better life for all Indonesians, for all human beings, a life marked
by dignity and opportunity.
Now, this kind of development is inseparable from the role of democracy.
Today, we sometimes hear that democracy stands in the way of economic progress. This is
not a new argument. Particularly in times of change and economic uncertainty, some will say
that it is easier to take a shortcut to development by trading away the right of human beings
for the power of the state. But that’s not what I saw on my trip to India, and that is not what
I see here in Indonesia. Your achievements demonstrate that democracy and development
reinforce one another.
Like any democracy, you have known setbacks along the way. America is no different. Our
own Constitution spoke of the effort to forge a “more perfect union,” and that is a journey that
we’ve traveled ever since. We’ve endured civil war and we struggled to extend equal rights to
all of our citizens. But it is precisely this effort that has allowed us to become stronger and
more prosperous, while also becoming a more just and a more free society.
Like other countries that emerged from colonial rule in the last century, Indonesia struggled
and sacrificed for the right to determine your destiny. That is what Heroes Day is all about -an Indonesia that belongs to Indonesians. But you also ultimately decided that freedom
cannot mean replacing the strong hand of a colonizer with a strongman of your own.
Of course, democracy is messy. Not everyone likes the results of every election. You go
through your ups and downs. But the journey is worthwhile, and it goes beyond casting a
ballot. It takes strong institutions to check the power -- the concentration of power. It takes
open markets to allow individuals to thrive. It takes a free press and an independent justice
system to root out abuses and excess, and to insist on accountability. It takes open society
and active citizens to reject inequality and injustice.
These are the forces that will propel Indonesia forward. And it will require a refusal to tolerate
the corruption that stands in the way of opportunity; a commitment to transparency that
gives every Indonesian a stake in their government; and a belief that the freedom of
Indonesians -- that Indonesians have fought for is what holds this great nation together.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
That is the message of the Indonesians who have advanced this democratic story -- from
those who fought in the Battle of Surabaya 55 years ago today; to the students who marched
peacefully for democracy in the 1990s; to leaders who have embraced the peaceful transition
of power in this young century. Because ultimately, it will be the rights of citizens that will
stitch together this remarkable Nusantara that stretches from Sabang to Merauke, an
insistence -- an insistence that every child born in this country should be treated equally,
whether they come from Java or Aceh; from Bali or Papua. That all Indonesians have equal
rights.
That effort extends to the example that Indonesia is now setting abroad. Indonesia took the
initiative to establish the Bali Democracy Forum, an open forum for countries to share their
experiences and best practices in fostering democracy. Indonesia has also been at the
forefront of pushing for more attention to human rights within ASEAN. The nations of
Southeast Asia must have the right to determine their own destiny, and the United States will
strongly support that right. But the people of Southeast Asia must have the right to
determine their own destiny as well. And that’s why we condemned elections in Burma
recently that were neither free nor fair. That is why we are supporting your vibrant civil
society in working with counterparts across this region. Because there’s no reason why
respect for human rights should stop at the border of any country.
Hand in hand, that is what development and democracy are about -- the notion that certain
values are universal. Prosperity without freedom is just another form of poverty. Because
there are aspirations that human beings share -- the liberty of knowing that your leader is
accountable to you, and that you won’t be locked up for disagreeing with them; the
opportunity to get an education and to be able to work with dignity; the freedom to practice
your faith without fear or restriction. Those are universal values that must be observed
everywhere.
Now, religion is the final topic that I want to address today, and -- like democracy and
development -- it is fundamental to the Indonesian story.
Like the other Asian nations that I’m visiting on this trip, Indonesia is steeped in spirituality -a place where people worship God in many different ways. Along with this rich diversity, it is
also home to the world’s largest Muslim population -- a truth I came to know as a boy when I
heard the call to prayer across Jakarta.
Just as individuals are not defined solely by their faith, Indonesia is defined by more than its
Muslim population. But we also know that relations between the United States and Muslim
communities have frayed over many years. As President, I have made it a priority to begin to
repair these relations. As part of that effort, I went to Cairo last June, and I called for a new
beginning between the United States and Muslims around the world -- one that creates a path
for us to move beyond our differences.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
I said then, and I will repeat now, that no single speech can eradicate years of mistrust. But I
believed then, and I believe today, that we do have a choice. We can choose to be defined by
our differences, and give in to a future of suspicion and mistrust. Or we can choose to do the
hard work of forging common ground, and commit ourselves to the steady pursuit of
progress. And I can promise you -- no matter what setbacks may come, the United States is
committed to human progress. That is who we are. That is what we’ve done. And that is
what we will do.
Now, we know well the issues that have caused tensions for many years -- and these are
issues that I addressed in Cairo. In the 17 months that have passed since that speech, we
have made some progress, but we have much more work to do.
Innocent civilians in America, in Indonesia and across the world are still targeted by violent
extremism. I made clear that America is not, and never will be, at war with Islam. Instead,
all of us must work together to defeat al Qaeda and its affiliates, who have no claim to be
leaders of any religion -- certainly not a great, world religion like Islam. But those who want
to build must not cede ground to terrorists who seek to destroy. And this is not a task for
America alone. Indeed, here in Indonesia, you’ve made progress in rooting out extremists
and combating such violence.
In Afghanistan, we continue to work with a coalition of nations to build the capacity of the
Afghan government to secure its future. Our shared interest is in building peace in a war-torn
land -- a peace that provides no safe haven for violent extremists, and that provide hope for
the Afghan people.
Meanwhile, we’ve made progress on one of our core commitments -- our effort to end the war
in Iraq. Nearly 100,000 American troops have now left Iraq under my presidency. Iraqis
have taken full responsibility for their security. And we will continue to support Iraq as it
forms an inclusive government, and we will bring all of our troops home.
In the Middle East, we have faced false starts and setbacks, but we’ve been persistent in our
pursuit of peace. Israelis and Palestinians restarted direct talks, but enormous obstacles
remain. There should be no illusion that peace and security will come easy. But let there be
no doubt: America will spare no effort in working for the outcome that is just, and that is in
the interests of all the parties involved -- two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in
peace and security. That is our goal.
The stakes are high in resolving all of these issues. For our world has grown smaller, and
while those forces that connect us have unleashed opportunity and great wealth, they also
empower those who seek to derail progress. One bomb in a marketplace can obliterate the
bustle of daily commerce. One whispered rumor can obscure the truth and set off violence
between communities that once lived together in peace. In an age of rapid change and
colliding cultures, what we share as human beings can sometimes be lost.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
But I believe that the history of both America and Indonesia should give us hope. It is a story
written into our national mottos. In the United States, our motto is E pluribus unum -- out of
many, one. Bhinneka Tunggal Ika -- unity in diversity. We are two nations, which have
traveled different paths. Yet our nations show that hundreds of millions who hold different
beliefs can be united in freedom under one flag. And we are now building on that shared
humanity -- through young people who will study in each other’s schools; through the
entrepreneurs forging ties that can lead to greater prosperity; and through our embrace of
fundamental democratic values and human aspirations.
Before I came here, I visited Istiqlal mosque -- a place of worship that was still under
construction when I lived in Jakarta. And I admired its soaring minaret and its imposing dome
and welcoming space. But its name and history also speak to what makes Indonesia great.
Istiqlal means independence, and its construction was in part a testament to the nation’s
struggle for freedom. Moreover, this house of worship for many thousands of Muslims was
designed by a Christian architect.
Such is Indonesia’s spirit. Such is the message of Indonesia’s inclusive philosophy, Pancasila.
Across an archipelago that contains some of God’s most beautiful creations, islands rising
above an ocean named for peace, people choose to worship God as they please. Islam
flourishes, but so do other faiths. Development is strengthened by an emerging democracy.
Ancient traditions endure, even as a rising power is on the move.
That is not to say that Indonesia is without imperfections. No country is. But here we can
find the ability to bridge divides of race and region and religion -- by the ability to see yourself
in other people. As a child of a different race who came here from a distant country, I found
this spirit in the greeting that I received upon moving here: Selamat Datang. As a Christian
visiting a mosque on this visit, I found it in the words of a leader who was asked about my
visit and said, “Muslims are also allowed in churches. We are all God’s followers.”
That spark of the divine lives within each of us. We cannot give in to doubt or cynicism or
despair. The stories of Indonesia and America should make us optimistic, because it tells us
that history is on the side of human progress; that unity is more powerful than division; and
that the people of this world can live together in peace. May our two nations, working
together, with faith and determination, share these truths with all mankind.
Sebagai penutup, saya mengucapkan kepada seluruh rakyat Indonesia: Terima kasih atas.
Terima kasih. Assalamualaikum. [In conclusion, I would like say thank you to all Indonesia:
Thank you for your assistance. Thank you. Peace be upon you.]
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329555" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iowa_Caucus_Victory_Speech.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iowa%20Caucus%20Victory%20Speech.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Iowa Caucus Victory Address
delivered 3 January 2008, Des Moines, Iowa

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio and edited for continuity

Thank you, Iowa.
You know, they said this day would never come.
They said our sights were set too high.
They said this country was too divided, too disillusioned to ever come together around a
common purpose.
But on this January night, at this defining moment in history, you have done what the cynics
said we couldn't do. You have done what the state of New Hampshire can do in five days. You
have done what America can do in this new year, 2008.
In lines that stretched around schools and churches, in small towns and in big cities, you
came together as Democrats, Republicans, and independents, to stand up and say that we are
one nation. We are one people. And our time for change has come.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Restrictions Unknown

Updated 12/31/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
You said the time has come to move beyond the bitterness and pettiness and anger that's
consumed Washington; to end the political strategy that's been all about division, and instead
make it about addition; to build a coalition for change that stretches through red states and
blue states; because that's how we'll win in November, and that's how we'll finally meet the
challenges that we face as a nation.
We are choosing hope over fear. We're choosing unity over division, and sending a powerful
message that change is coming to America.
You said the time has come to tell the lobbyists who think their money and their influence
speak louder than our voices that they don't own this government -- we do. And we are here
to take it back.
The time has come for a President who will be honest about the choices and the challenges we
face, who will listen to you and learn from you, even when we disagree, who won't just tell
you what you want to hear, but what you need to know. And in New Hampshire, if you give
me the same chance that Iowa did tonight, I will be that President for America.
I'll be a President who finally makes health care affordable and available to every single
American, the same way I expanded health care in Illinois, by bringing Democrats and
Republicans together to get the job done.
I'll be a President who ends the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and put
a middle-class tax cut into the pockets of working Americans who deserve it.
I'll be a President who harnesses the ingenuity of farmers and scientists and entrepreneurs to
free this nation from the tyranny of oil once and for all.
And I'll be a President who ends this war in Iraq and finally brings our troops home, who
restores our moral standing, who understands that 9/11 is not a way to scare up votes but a
challenge that should unite America and the world against the common threats of the 21st
century -- common threats of terrorism and nuclear weapons, climate change and poverty,
genocide and disease.
Tonight, we are one step closer to that vision of America because of what you did here in
Iowa. And so I'd especially like to thank the organizers and the precinct captains, the
volunteers and the staff who made this all possible.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Restrictions Unknown

Updated 12/31/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And while I'm at it on thank you's, I think it makes sense for me to thank the love of my life,
the rock of the Obama family, the closer on the campaign trail: Give it up for Michelle Obama.
I know you didn't do this for me. You did this because you believed so deeply in the most
American of ideas -- that in the face of impossible odds, people who love this country can
change it.
I know this. I know this because while I may be standing here tonight, I'll never forget that
my journey began on the streets of Chicago doing what so many of you have done for this
campaign and all the campaigns here in Iowa: organizing and working and fighting to make
people's lives just a little bit better.
I know how hard it is. It comes with little sleep, little pay, and a lot of sacrifice. There are
days of disappointment. But sometimes, just sometimes, there are nights like this: a night
that, years from now, when we've made the changes we believe in, when more families can
afford to see a doctor, when our children -- when Malia and Sasha and your children inherit a
planet that's a little cleaner and safer, when the world sees America differently, and America
sees itself as a nation less divided and more united, you'll be able to look back with pride and
say that this was the moment when it all began.
This was the moment when the improbable beat what Washington always said was inevitable.
This was the moment when we tore down barriers that have divided us for too long; when we
rallied people of all parties and ages to a common cause; when we finally gave Americans who
had never participated in politics a reason to stand up and to do so.
This was the moment when we finally beat back the politics of fear and doubt and cynicism,
the politics where we tear each other down instead of lifting this country up. This was the
moment.
Years from now, you'll look back and you'll say that this was the moment, this was the place
where America remembered what it means to hope. For many months, we've been teased,
even derided for talking about hope. But we always knew that hope is not blind optimism. It's
not ignoring the enormity of the tasks ahead or the roadblocks that stand in our path.
It's not sitting on the sidelines or shirking from a fight. Hope is that thing inside us that
insists, despite all the evidence to the contrary, that something better awaits us if we have
the courage to reach for it and to work for it and to fight for it.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Restrictions Unknown

Updated 12/31/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Hope is what I saw in the eyes of the young woman in Cedar Rapids who works the night shift
after a full day of college and still can't afford health care for a sister who's ill -- a young
woman who still believes that this country will give her the chance to live out her dreams.
Hope is what I heard in the voice of the New Hampshire woman who told me that she hasn't
been able to breathe since her nephew left for Iraq -- who still goes to bed each night praying
for his safe return.
Hope is what led a band of colonists to rise up against an empire, what led the greatest of
generations to free a continent and heal a nation, what led young women and young men to
sit at lunch counters and brave fire hoses and march through Selma and Montgomery for
freedom's cause.
Hope is what led me here today. With a father from Kenya, a mother from Kansas, and a
story that could only happen in the United States of America.
Hope is the bedrock of this nation -- the belief that our destiny will not be written for us, but
by us, by all those men and women who are not content to settle for the world as it is, who
have the courage to remake the world as it should be.
That is what we started here in Iowa and that is the message we can now carry to New
Hampshire and beyond; the same message we had when we were up and when we were
down; the one that can save this country, brick by brick, block by block, calloused hand by
calloused hand; that together, ordinary people can do extraordinary things.
Because we are not a collection of red states and blue states. We are the United States of
America. And in this moment, in this election, we are ready to believe again.
Thank you, Iowa.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Copyright Status: Restrictions Unknown

Updated 12/31/21

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329855" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iraqi_Freedom_End.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iraqi%20Freedom%20End.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Nation on the End of Operation Iraqi Freedom

Delivered 31 August 2010, Oval Office of the White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good evening. Tonight, I’d like to talk to you about the end of our combat mission in Iraq,
the ongoing security challenges we face, and the need to rebuild our nation here at home.
I know this historic moment comes at a time of great uncertainty for many Americans. We’ve
now been through nearly a decade of war. We’ve endured a long and painful recession. And
sometimes in the midst of these storms, the future that we’re trying to build for our nation -a future of lasting peace and long-term prosperity -- may seem beyond our reach.
But this milestone should serve as a reminder to all Americans that the future is ours to shape
if we move forward with confidence and commitment. It should also serve as a message to
the world that the United States of America intends to sustain and strengthen our leadership
in this young century.
From this desk, seven and a half years ago, President Bush announced the beginning of
military operations in Iraq. Much has changed since that night. A war to disarm a state
became a fight against an insurgency. Terrorism and sectarian warfare threatened to tear
Iraq apart. Thousands of Americans gave their lives; tens of thousands have been wounded.
Our relations abroad were strained. Our unity at home was tested.
These are the rough waters encountered during the course of one of America’s longest wars.
Yet there has been one constant amidst these shifting tides. At every turn, America’s men
and women in uniform have served with courage and resolve.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
As Commander-in-Chief, I am incredibly proud of their service. And like all Americans, I’m
awed by their sacrifice, and by the sacrifices of their families.
The Americans who have served in Iraq completed every mission they were given. They
defeated a regime that had terrorized its people. Together with Iraqis and coalition partners
who made huge sacrifices of their own, our troops fought block by block to help Iraq seize the
chance for a better future. They shifted tactics to protect the Iraqi people, trained Iraqi
Security Forces, and took out terrorist leaders. Because of our troops and civilians -- and
because of the resilience of the Iraqi people -- Iraq has the opportunity to embrace a new
destiny, even though many challenges remain.
So tonight, I am announcing that the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation
Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of
their country.
This was my pledge to the American people as a candidate for this office. Last February, I
announced a plan that would bring our combat brigades out of Iraq, while redoubling our
efforts to strengthen Iraq’s Security Forces and support its government and people.
That’s what we’ve done. We’ve removed nearly 100,000 U.S. troops from Iraq. We’ve closed
or transferred to the Iraqis hundreds of bases. And we have moved millions of pieces of
equipment out of Iraq.
This completes a transition to Iraqi responsibility for their own security. U.S. troops pulled out
of Iraq’s cities last summer, and Iraqi forces have moved into the lead with considerable skill
and commitment to their fellow citizens. Even as Iraq continues to suffer terrorist attacks,
security incidents have been near the lowest on record since the war began. And Iraqi forces
have taken the fight to al Qaeda, removing much of its leadership in Iraqi-led operations.
This year also saw Iraq hold credible elections that drew a strong turnout. A caretaker
administration is in place as Iraqis form a government based on the results of that election.
Tonight, I encourage Iraq’s leaders to move forward with a sense of urgency to form an
inclusive government that is just, representative, and accountable to the Iraqi people. And
when that government is in place, there should be no doubt: The Iraqi people will have a
strong partner in the United States. Our combat mission is ending, but our commitment to
Iraq’s future is not.
Going forward, a transitional force of U.S. troops will remain in Iraq with a different mission:
advising and assisting Iraq’s Security Forces, supporting Iraqi troops in targeted
counterterrorism missions, and protecting our civilians. Consistent with our agreement with
the Iraqi government, all U.S. troops will leave by the end of next year.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
As our military draws down, our dedicated civilians -- diplomats, aid workers, and advisors -are moving into the lead to support Iraq as it strengthens its government, resolves political
disputes, resettles those displaced by war, and builds ties with the region and the world.
That’s a message that Vice President Biden is delivering to the Iraqi people through his visit
there today.
This new approach reflects our long-term partnership with Iraq -- one based upon mutual
interest and mutual respect. Of course, violence will not end with our combat mission.
Extremists will continue to set off bombs, attack Iraqi civilians and try to spark sectarian
strife. But ultimately, these terrorists will fail to achieve their goals. Iraqis are a proud
people. They have rejected sectarian war, and they have no interest in endless destruction.
They understand that, in the end, only Iraqis can resolve their differences and police their
streets. Only Iraqis can build a democracy within their borders. What America can do, and
will do, is provide support for the Iraqi people as both a friend and a partner.
Ending this war is not only in Iraq’s interest -- it’s in our own. The United States has paid a
huge price to put the future of Iraq in the hands of its people. We have sent our young men
and women to make enormous sacrifices in Iraq, and spent vast resources abroad at a time of
tight budgets at home. We’ve persevered because of a belief we share with the Iraqi people - a belief that out of the ashes of war, a new beginning could be born in this cradle of
civilization. Through this remarkable chapter in the history of the United States and Iraq, we
have met our responsibility. Now, it’s time to turn the page.
As we do, I’m mindful that the Iraq war has been a contentious issue at home. Here, too, it’s
time to turn the page. This afternoon, I spoke to former President George W. Bush. It’s well
known that he and I disagreed about the war from its outset. Yet no one can doubt President
Bush’s support for our troops, or his love of country and commitment to our security. As I’ve
said, there were patriots who supported this war, and patriots who opposed it. And all of us
are united in appreciation for our servicemen and women, and our hopes for Iraqis’ future.
The greatness of our democracy is grounded in our ability to move beyond our differences,
and to learn from our experience as we confront the many challenges ahead. And no
challenge is more essential to our security than our fight against al Qaeda.
Americans across the political spectrum supported the use of force against those who attacked
us on 9/11. Now, as we approach our 10th year of combat in Afghanistan, there are those
who are understandably asking tough questions about our mission there. But we must never
lose sight of what’s at stake. As we speak, al Qaeda continues to plot against us, and its
leadership remains anchored in the border regions of Afghanistan and Pakistan. We will
disrupt, dismantle and defeat al Qaeda, while preventing Afghanistan from again serving as a
base for terrorists. And because of our drawdown in Iraq, we are now able to apply the
resources necessary to go on offense. In fact, over the last 19 months, nearly a dozen al
Qaeda leaders -- and hundreds of al Qaeda’s extremist allies -- have been killed or captured
around the world.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Within Afghanistan, I’ve ordered the deployment of additional troops who -- under the
command of General David Petraeus -- are fighting to break the Taliban’s momentum. As with
the surge in Iraq, these forces will be in place for a limited time to provide space for the
Afghans to build their capacity and secure their own future. But, as was the case in Iraq, we
can’t do for Afghans what they must ultimately do for themselves. That’s why we’re training
Afghan Security Forces and supporting a political resolution to Afghanistan’s problems. And
next August, we will begin a transition to Afghan responsibility. The pace of our troop
reductions will be determined by conditions on the ground, and our support for Afghanistan
will endure. But make no mistake: This transition will begin -- because open-ended war
serves neither our interests nor the Afghan people’s.
Indeed, one of the lessons of our effort in Iraq is that American influence around the world is
not a function of military force alone. We must use all elements of our power -- including our
diplomacy, our economic strength, and the power of America’s example -- to secure our
interests and stand by our allies. And we must project a vision of the future that’s based not
just on our fears, but also on our hopes -- a vision that recognizes the real dangers that exist
around the world, but also the limitless possibilities of our time.
Today, old adversaries are at peace, and emerging democracies are potential partners. New
markets for our goods stretch from Asia to the Americas. A new push for peace in the Middle
East will begin here tomorrow. Billions of young people want to move beyond the shackles of
poverty and conflict. As the leader of the free world, America will do more than just defeat on
the battlefield those who offer hatred and destruction -- we will also lead among those who
are willing to work together to expand freedom and opportunity for all people.
Now, that effort must begin within our own borders. Throughout our history, America has
been willing to bear the burden of promoting liberty and human dignity overseas,
understanding its links to our own liberty and security. But we have also understood that our
nation’s strength and influence abroad must be firmly anchored in our prosperity at home.
And the bedrock of that prosperity must be a growing middle class.
Unfortunately, over the last decade, we’ve not done what’s necessary to shore up the
foundations of our own prosperity. We spent a trillion dollars at war, often financed by
borrowing from overseas. This, in turn, has short-changed investments in our own people,
and contributed to record deficits. For too long, we have put off tough decisions on
everything from our manufacturing base to our energy policy to education reform. As a
result, too many middle-class families find themselves working harder for less, while our
nation’s long-term competitiveness is put at risk.
And so at this moment, as we wind down the war in Iraq, we must tackle those challenges at
home with as much energy, and grit, and sense of common purpose as our men and women
in uniform who have served abroad.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
They have met every test that they faced. Now, it’s our turn. Now, it’s our responsibility to
honor them by coming together, all of us, and working to secure the dream that so many
generations have fought for -- the dream that a better life awaits anyone who is willing to
work for it and reach for it.
Our most urgent task is to restore our economy, and put the millions of Americans who have
lost their jobs back to work. To strengthen our middle class, we must give all our children the
education they deserve, and all our workers the skills that they need to compete in a global
economy. We must jumpstart industries that create jobs, and end our dependence on foreign
oil. We must unleash the innovation that allows new products to roll off our assembly lines,
and nurture the ideas that spring from our entrepreneurs. This will be difficult. But in the
days to come, it must be our central mission as a people, and my central responsibility as
President.
Part of that responsibility is making sure that we honor our commitments to those who have
served our country with such valor. As long as I am President, we will maintain the finest
fighting force that the world has ever known, and we will do whatever it takes to serve our
veterans as well as they have served us. This is a sacred trust. That’s why we’ve already
made one of the largest increases in funding for veterans in decades. We’re treating the
signature wounds of today’s wars -- post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injury
-- while providing the health care and benefits that all of our veterans have earned. And
we’re funding a Post-9/11 GI Bill that helps our veterans and their families pursue the dream
of a college education. Just as the GI Bill helped those who fought World War II -- including
my grandfather -- become the backbone of our middle class, so today’s servicemen and
women must have the chance to apply their gifts to expand the American economy. Because
part of ending a war responsibly is standing by those who have fought it.
Two weeks ago, America’s final combat brigade in Iraq -- the Army’s Fourth Stryker Brigade -journeyed home in the pre-dawn darkness. Thousands of soldiers and hundreds of vehicles
made the trip from Baghdad, the last of them passing into Kuwait in the early morning hours.
Over seven years before, American troops and coalition partners had fought their way across
similar highways, but this time no shots were fired. It was just a convoy of brave Americans,
making their way home.
Of course, the soldiers left much behind. Some were teenagers when the war began. Many
have served multiple tours of duty, far from families who bore a heroic burden of their own,
enduring the absence of a husband’s embrace or a mother’s kiss. Most painfully, since the
war began, 55 members of the Fourth Stryker Brigade made the ultimate sacrifice -- part of
over 4,400 Americans who have given their lives in Iraq. As one staff sergeant said, “I know
that to my brothers in arms who fought and died, this day would probably mean a lot.”

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Those Americans gave their lives for the values that have lived in the hearts of our people for
over two centuries. Along with nearly 1.5 million Americans who have served in Iraq, they
fought in a faraway place for people they never knew. They stared into the darkest of human
creations -- war -- and helped the Iraqi people seek the light of peace.
In an age without surrender ceremonies, we must earn victory through the success of our
partners and the strength of our own nation. Every American who serves joins an unbroken
line of heroes that stretches from Lexington to Gettysburg; from Iwo Jima to Inchon; from
Khe Sanh to Kandahar -- Americans who have fought to see that the lives of our children are
better than our own. Our troops are the steel in our ship of state. And though our nation
may be travelling through rough waters, they give us confidence that our course is true, and
that beyond the pre-dawn darkness, better days lie ahead.
Thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America, and all
who serve her.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329646" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iraq_Multinational_Troops.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iraq%20Multinational%20Troops.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to Multi-National Forces Serving in Iraq

Delivered 7 April 2009, Al Faw Palace, Baghdad, Iraq

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Thank you, guys. Let me say Multinational Force Iraq, Multinational Corps Iraq,
Multinational Security Transition Command Iraq First Corps, America's Corp Band: Thanks to
all of you. Listen, I am so honored.
Audience Member: We love you.
President Obama: I love you back. I am honored -- I'm honored and grateful to be with all of
you. And I'm not going to talk long because I want to shake as many hands as I can. And I've
been talking all week. But there's a couple of things I want to say. Number one, thank you.
You know, when I was at Camp Lejeune I spoke about what it means for America to see our
best and brightest, our finest young men and women serve us. And what I said then is
something that I want to repeat to you, which is: You have performed brilliantly in every
mission that has been given to you.
Under enormous strain and under enormous sacrifice, through controversy and difficulty and
politics, you've kept your eyes focused on just doing your job. And because of that, every
mission that's been assigned -- from getting rid of Saddam, to reducing violence, to stabilizing
the country, to facilitating elections -- you have given Iraq the opportunity to stand on its own
as a democratic country. That is an extraordinary achievement, and for that you have the
thanks of the American people. That's point number one.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Point number two is, this is going to be a critical period, these next 18 months. I was just
discussing this with your commander, but I think it's something that all of you know. It is
time for us to transition to the Iraqis. They need to take responsibility for their country and for
their sovereignty.
And in order for them to do that, they have got to make political accommodations. They're
going to have to decide that they want to resolve their differences through constitutional
means and legal means. They are going to have to focus on providing government services
that encourage confidence among their citizens.
All those things they have to do. We can't do it for them. But what we can do is make sure
that we are a stalwart partner, that we are working alongside them, that we are committed to
their success, that in terms of training their security forces, training their civilian forces in
order to achieve a more effective government, they know that they have a steady partner
with us.
And so just as we thank you for what you've already accomplished, I want to say thank you
because you will be critical in terms of us being able to make sure that Iraq is stable, that it is
not a safe haven for terrorists, that it is a good neighbor and a good ally, and we can start
bringing our folks home. So now is not the time to lose focus. We have to be even more
focused than we've been in order to achieve success.
The last point I want to make is I know how hard it's been on a lot of you. You've been away
from your families, many of you for multiple rotations. You've seen buddies of yours injured
and you remember those who have made the ultimate sacrifice.
There are probably some people here who have seen children born and have been missing
watching them grow up. There are many of you who have listened to your spouse and the
extraordinary sacrifices that they have to make when you're gone.
And so I want you to know that Michelle and myself are doing everything -- are doing
everything we can to provide additional support for military families. The federal budget that I
have introduced increases support for military families. We are going to do everything
required to make sure that the commitment we make to our veterans is met, and that people
don't have to fight for what they have earned as a consequence of their service.
The main point I want to make is we have not forgotten what you have already done, we are
grateful for what you will do, and as long as I am in the White House, you are going to get the
support that you need and the thanks that you deserve from a grateful nation.
So thank you very much everybody. God bless you.
God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329543" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iraq_War_After_4_Years.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iraq%20War%20After%204%20Years.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on the Iraq War After 4 Years

Delivered 21 March 2007, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio and edited for continuity

Thank you very much, Mr. President.
Mr. President, on Thursdays Senator Durbin and I hold a constituent coffee so we can hear
from the folks back home. A young man came a few months ago who was about 25, 26 years
old. He had been back from Iraq for a year. The first six months of that year had been spent
in a coma. An explosion had shattered his face, blinded him in both eyes, has left him without
the use of one arm.
He talked to us about how he was going through rehab. He introduced us to his family. He has
a wife and two young daughters like I do, and his wife talked for a bit about the adjustments
they were making at home since dad got hurt. And I found myself looking at not just him, but
his wife, who loves him so much. And I thought about how their lives were forever changed
because of the decision that was carried out four years ago.
The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. I first made this point in the fall of 2002, at the end of
the speech that I gave opposing the invasion of Iraq. I said then that I certainly do not oppose
all wars. Rather, I oppose dumb wars, rash wars, wars that are based on passion as opposed
to wars based on a sober assessment of our national security interests, because there's no
decision more profound than the one we make to send our brave men and women into harm’s
way.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’ve thought about these words from time to time since that speech, but never so much as the
day I saw that young man and his wife, and understood the degree to which their lives had
been turn upside down.
The sacrifices of war are immeasurable. Too many have returned from Iraq with that soldier’s
story ­­ with broken bodies and shattered nerves and wounds that even the best care may not
heal. Too many of our best have come home shrouded in the flag they loved. Too many moms
and dads and husbands and wives have answered that knock on the door that’s hardest for
any loved one to hear. And the rest of us have seen too many promises of swift victories and
dying insurgencies and budding democracy giving way to the reality of a brutal civil war that
goes on and on and on to this day.
The sacrifices of war, Mr. President, are immeasurable. It was not impossible to see back then
that we might arrive at the place we’re at today. I said then that a war based not on reason
but on passion, not on principle but on politics would lead to a U.S. occupation of
undetermined length, at undetermined cost, with undetermined consequences. I believed that
an invasion of Iraq without a clear rationale or strong international support would only
strengthen the recruitment arm of al­Qaeda and erode the good standing and moral authority
that took our country generations to build. There were other experts and leaders and
everyday Americans who believed this too.
I wish I had been wrong. I wish we weren’t here talking about this at the beginning of the
war’s fifth year ­­ because the consequences of this war have been profound. And the
sacrifices have been immeasurable.
Mr. President, those who would have us continue this war in perpetuity like to say that this is
a matter of resolve on behalf of the American people. But the American people have been
extraordinarily resolved. They've seen their sons and daughters killed and wounded on the
streets of Fallujah. They've spent hundreds of billions of dollars on this effort ­­ money that
could have been devoted to strengthening our homeland and our competitive standing as a
nation.
It is not a failure of resolve that has led us into this chaos but a failed strategy ­­ a strategy
that has only strengthened Iran’s strategic position, increased threats posed by terrorist
organizations, reduced U.S. credibility and influence around the world, and placed Israel and
other nations [friendly] to the United States in the region in greater peril. Iraq has not been a
failure of resolve; it has been a failure of strategy, and that strategy must change. It is time
to bring a responsible end to U.S. involvement in this conflict is now.
It's become apparent, Mr. President, that there's no military solution to this war. No amount
of U.S. soldiers ­­ not 10,000 more, not 20,000 more, not almost 30,000 more than we know
we are sending ­­ can solve the grievances that lay at the heart of someone else’s civil war.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Our troops cannot serve as their diplomats, and we can no longer referee their civil war. We
must begin a phased withdrawal of our forces starting May 1st, with the goal of removing all
combat forces by March 30th, 2008.
We also must make sure that we’re not as careless getting out of this war as we were getting
in, and that’s why this withdrawal should be gradual, and maintain some U.S. troops in the
region to prevent a wider war in the region, while they can also work on going after Al Qaeda
and other terrorists. But this phased withdrawal, Mr. President, must begin soon. Letting the
Iraqis know that we will not be there forever is our last, best hope to pressure the Iraqis to
take ownership of their country and bring an end to their conflict. It is time for our troops to
start coming home.
History will not judge, Mr. President, the architects of this war kindly. But the books have yet
to be written on our effort to right the wrongs we see in Iraq. The story has yet to be told
about how we turned from this moment, found our way out of the desert, and took to heart
the lessons of war that too many refused to heed back then; for it is of little use or comfort to
recall past advice and warnings if we do not allow them to guide us in the challenges that lie
ahead. Mr. President, threats loom large in an age where terrorist networks thrive, and there
will certainly be times when we have to call on our brave servicemen and women to risk their
lives again.
But before we make that most profound of all decisions, before we send our best off to battle,
we must remember what led us to this day and learn from the principles that follow.
We must remember that ideology is not a foreign policy. We must not embark on a war based
on untested theories, political agendas, or wishful thinking that has little basis in fact or
reality. We must focus our efforts on the threats we know exist, and we must evaluate those
threats with sound intelligence that is never manipulated for political reasons.
Mr. President, we must remember that the cost of going it alone is immense. It is a choice we
sometimes have to make, but one that must be made rarely and always reluctantly. That's
because America’s standing in the world is a precious resource not easily rebuilt. We value the
cooperation and goodwill of other nations not because it makes us feel good, but because it
makes all the world safer; because the only way to battle 21st century threats that race
across the borders ­­ threats like terror and disease and nuclear proliferation ­­ is to enlist the
resources and support of all nations. To win our wider struggle, we must let people across this
planet know that there is another, more hopeful alternative to the hateful ideologies the
terrorists espouse and a renewed America will reflect and champion that vision.
Mr. President, we must remember that planning for peace is just as critical as planning for
war. Iraq was not just a failure of conception but a failure of execution, and so when a conflict
does arise that requires our involvement, we must understand that country’s history, its
politics, its ethnic and religious divisions before our troops ever set foot on its soil.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We must understand that setting up ballot boxes does not a democracy make ­­ that real
freedom and real stability come from doing the hard work of helping to build a strong police
force, and a legitimate government, and ensuring that people have food, and water, and
electricity, and basic services. And we must be honest about how much of that we can do
ourselves and how much must come from the people themselves.
Finally, Mr. President, we must remember that when we send our servicemen and women to
war, we make sure we give them the training they need, and the equipment that will keep
them safe, and a mission that they can accomplish. We must respect our commanders’ advice
not just when its politically convenient, but even when it’s not what we want to hear. And
when our troops come home, it is our most solemn responsibility to make sure they come
home to the services, and the benefits, and the care they deserve.
As we stand at the beginning of the fifth year of this war, Mr. President, let us remember that
young man from Illinois, and his wife, and his daughters, and the thousands upon thousands
of families who are living the very real consequences and immeasurable sacrifices that have
come from our decision to invade Iraq. We are so blessed in this country to have so many
men and women like this ­­ Americans willing to put on that uniform, and say the hard
goodbyes, and risk their lives in a far off land because they know that such consequences and
sacrifices are sometimes necessary to defend our country and achieve a lasting peace.
That is why we have no greater responsibility than to ensure the decision to place them in
harm’s way is the right one. And that is why we must learn the lessons of Iraq. It is what we
owe our soldiers. It is what we owe their families. And it is what we owe our country ­­ now,
and all the days and months to come.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329632" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Iraq_War_Camp_Lejeune.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Iraq%20War%20Camp%20Lejeune.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Responsibly Ending the War in Iraq

Delivered 27 February 2009, Camp Lejeune, North Carolina

Good morning Marines. Good morning Camp Lejeune. Good morning Jacksonville. Thank you for that
outstanding welcome. I want to thank Lieutenant General Hejlik for hosting me here today.
I also want to acknowledge all of our soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines serving in Iraq and Afghanistan.
That includes the Camp Lejeune Marines now serving with -- or soon joining -- the Second Marine
Expeditionary Force in Iraq; those with Special Purpose Marine Air Ground Task Force in Afghanistan; and
those among the 8,000 Marines who are preparing to deploy to Afghanistan. We have you in our prayers.
We pay tribute to your service. We thank you and your families for all that you do for America. And I want all
of you to know that there is no higher honor or greater responsibility than serving as your Commander-inChief.
I also want to take this opportunity to acknowledge Ryan Crocker, who recently completed his service as our
Ambassador to Iraq. Throughout his career, Ryan always took on the toughest assignments. He is an
example of the very best that this nation has to offer, and we owe him a great debt of gratitude. He carried
on his work with an extraordinary degree of cooperation with two of our finest Generals -- General David
Petraeus, and General Ray Odierno -- who will be critical in carrying forward the strategy that I will outline
today.
Next month will mark the sixth anniversary of the war in Iraq. By any measure, this has already been a long
war. For the men and women of America’s armed forces -- and for your families -- this war has been one of
the most extraordinary chapters of service in the history of our nation. You have endured tour after tour after
tour of duty. You have known the dangers of combat and the lonely distance of loved ones. You have fought
against tyranny and disorder.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
You have bled for your best friends and for unknown Iraqis. And you have borne an enormous burden for
your fellow citizens, while extending a precious opportunity to the people of Iraq. Under tough
circumstances, the men and women of the United States military have served with honor, and succeeded
beyond any expectation.
Today, I have come to speak to you about how the war in Iraq will end.
To understand where we need to go in Iraq, it is important for the American people to understand where we
now stand. Thanks in great measure to your service, the situation in Iraq has improved. Violence has been
reduced substantially from the horrific sectarian killing of 2006 and 2007. Al Qaeda in Iraq has been dealt a
serious blow by our troops and Iraq’s Security Forces, and through our partnership with Sunni Arabs. The
capacity of Iraq’s Security Forces has improved, and Iraq’s leaders have taken steps toward political
accommodation. The relative peace and strong participation in January’s provincial elections sent a
powerful message to the world about how far Iraqis have come in pursuing their aspirations through a
peaceful political process.
But let there be no doubt: Iraq is not yet secure, and there will be difficult days ahead. Violence will continue
to be a part of life in Iraq. Too many fundamental political questions about Iraq’s future remain unresolved.
Too many Iraqis are still displaced or destitute. Declining oil revenues will put an added strain on a
government that has had difficulty delivering basic services. Not all of Iraq’s neighbors are contributing to its
security. Some are working at times to undermine it. And even as Iraq’s government is on a surer footing, it
is not yet a full partner -- politically and economically -- in the region, or with the international community
In short, today there is a renewed cause for hope in Iraq, but that hope rests upon an emerging foundation.
On my first full day in office, I directed my national security team to undertake a comprehensive review of
our strategy in Iraq to determine the best way to strengthen that foundation, while strengthening American
national security. I have listened to my Secretary of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and commanders on
the ground. We have acted with careful consideration of events on the ground; with respect for the security
agreements between the United States and Iraq; and with a critical recognition that the long-term solution in
Iraq must be political -- not military. Because the most important decisions that have to be made about Iraq’s
future must now be made by Iraqis.
We have also taken into account the simple reality that America can no longer afford to see Iraq in isolation
from other priorities: we face the challenge of refocusing on Afghanistan and Pakistan; of relieving the
burden on our military; and of rebuilding our struggling economy -- and these are challenges that we will
meet.
Today, I can announce that our review is complete, and that the United States will pursue a new strategy to
end the war in Iraq through a transition to full Iraqi responsibility.
This strategy is grounded in a clear and achievable goal shared by the Iraqi people and the American
people: an Iraq that is sovereign, stable, and self-reliant.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
To achieve that goal, we will work to promote an Iraqi government that is just, representative, and
accountable, and that provides neither support nor safe-haven to terrorists. We will help Iraq build new ties
of trade and commerce with the world. And we will forge a partnership with the people and government of
Iraq that contributes to the peace and security of the region.
What we will not do is let the pursuit of the perfect stand in the way of achievable goals. We cannot rid Iraq
of all who oppose America or sympathize with our adversaries. We cannot police Iraq’s streets until they are
completely safe, nor stay until Iraq’s union is perfected. We cannot sustain indefinitely a commitment that
has put a strain on our military, and will cost the American people nearly a trillion dollars. America’s men
and women in uniform have fought block by block, province by province, year after year, to give the Iraqis
this chance to choose a better future. Now, we must ask the Iraqi people to seize it.
The first part of this strategy is therefore the responsible removal of our combat brigades from Iraq.
As a candidate for President, I made clear my support for a timeline of 16 months to carry out this
drawdown, while pledging to consult closely with our military commanders upon taking office to ensure that
we preserve the gains we’ve made and protect our troops. Those consultations are now complete, and I
have chosen a timeline that will remove our combat brigades over the next 18 months.
Let me say this as plainly as I can: by August 31, 2010, our combat mission in Iraq will end.
As we carry out this drawdown, my highest priority will be the safety and security of our troops and civilians
in Iraq. We will proceed carefully, and I will consult closely with my military commanders on the ground and
with the Iraqi government. There will surely be difficult periods and tactical adjustments. But our enemies
should be left with no doubt: this plan gives our military the forces and the flexibility they need to support our
Iraqi partners, and to succeed.
After we remove our combat brigades, our mission will change from combat to supporting the Iraqi
government and its Security Forces as they take the absolute lead in securing their country. As I have long
said, we will retain a transitional force to carry out three distinct functions: training, equipping, and advising
Iraqi Security Forces as long as they remain non-sectarian; conducting targeted counter-terrorism missions;
and protecting our ongoing civilian and military efforts within Iraq. Initially, this force will likely be made up of
35-50,000 U.S. troops.
Through this period of transition, we will carry out further redeployments. And under the Status of Forces
Agreement with the Iraqi government, I intend to remove all U.S. troops from Iraq by the end of 2011. We
will complete this transition to Iraqi responsibility, and we will bring our troops home with the honor that they
have earned.
As we responsibly remove our combat brigades, we will pursue the second part of our strategy: sustained
diplomacy on behalf of a more peaceful and prosperous Iraq.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The drawdown of our military should send a clear signal that Iraq’s future is now its own responsibility. The
long-term success of the Iraqi nation will depend upon decisions made by Iraq’s leaders and the fortitude of
the Iraqi people. Iraq is a sovereign country with legitimate institutions; America cannot -- and should not -take their place. However, a strong political, diplomatic, and civilian effort on our part can advance progress
and help lay a foundation for lasting peace and security.
This effort will be led by our new Ambassador to Iraq -- Chris Hill. From his time in the Peace Corps, to his
work in Kosovo and Korea, Ambassador Hill has been tested, and he has shown the pragmatism and skill
that we need right now. He will be supported by the courageous and capable work of so many American
diplomats and aid workers who are serving in Iraq.
Going forward, we can make a difference on several fronts. We will work with the United Nations to support
national elections, while helping Iraqis improve local government. We can serve as an honest broker in
pursuit of fair and durable agreements on issues that have divided Iraq’s leaders. And just as we will support
Iraq’s Security Forces, we will help Iraqi institutions strengthen their capacity to protect the rule of law,
confront corruption, and deliver basic services.
Diplomacy and assistance is also required to help the millions of displaced Iraqis. These men, women and
children are a living consequence of this war and a challenge to stability in the region, and they must
become a part of Iraq’s reconciliation and recovery. America has a strategic interest -- and a moral
responsibility -- to act. In the coming months, my administration will provide more assistance and take steps
to increase international support for countries already hosting refugees; we’ll cooperate with others to
resettle Iraqis facing great personal risk; and we will work with the Iraqi government over time to resettle
refugees and displaced Iraqis within Iraq -- because there are few more powerful indicators of lasting peace
than displaced citizens returning home.
Now, before I go any further, I want to take a moment to speak directly to the people of Iraq.
You are a great nation, rooted in the cradle of civilization. You are joined together by enduring
accomplishments, and a history that connects you as surely as the two rivers carved into your land. In years
past, you have persevered through tyranny and terror; through personal insecurity and sectarian violence.
And instead of giving in to the forces of disunion, you stepped back from a descent into civil war, and
showed a proud resilience that deserves respect.
Our nations have known difficult times together. But ours is a bond forged by shared bloodshed, and
countless friendships among our people. We Americans have offered our most precious resource -- our
young men and women -- to work with you to rebuild what was destroyed by despotism; to root out our
common enemies; and to seek peace and prosperity for our children and grandchildren, and for yours.
There are those who will try to prevent that future for Iraq -- who will insist that Iraq’s differences cannot be
reconciled without more killing. They represent the forces that destroy nations and lead only to despair, and
they will test our will in the months and years to come. America, too, has known these forces. We endured
the pain of Civil War, and bitter divisions of region and race. But hostility and hatred are no match for justice;
they offer no pathway to peace; and they must not stand between the people of Iraq and a future of
reconciliation and hope.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So to the Iraqi people, let me be clear about America’s intentions. The United States pursues no claim on
your territory or your resources. We respect your sovereignty and the tremendous sacrifices you have made
for your country. We seek a full transition to Iraqi responsibility for the security of your country. And going
forward, we can build a lasting relationship founded upon mutual interests and mutual respect as Iraq takes
its rightful place in the community of nations.
That leads me to the third part of our strategy -- comprehensive American engagement across the region.
The future of Iraq is inseparable from the future of the broader Middle East, so we must work with our
friends and partners to establish a new framework that advances Iraq’s security and the region’s. It is time
for Iraq to be a full partner in a regional dialogue, and for Iraq’s neighbors to establish productive and
normalized relations with Iraq. And going forward, the United States will pursue principled and sustained
engagement with all of the nations in the region, and that will include Iran and Syria.
This reflects a fundamental truth: we can no longer deal with regional challenges in isolation -- we need a
smarter, more sustainable and comprehensive approach. That is why we are renewing our diplomacy, while
relieving the burden on our military. That is why we are refocusing on al Qaeda in Afghanistan and Pakistan;
developing a strategy to use all elements of American power to prevent Iran from developing a nuclear
weapon; and actively seeking a lasting peace between Israel and the Arab world. And that is why we have
named three of America’s most accomplished diplomats -- George Mitchell, Dennis Ross and Richard
Holbrooke -- to support Secretary Clinton and me as we carry forward this agenda.
Every nation and every group must know -- whether you wish America good or ill -- that the end of the war in
Iraq will enable a new era of American leadership and engagement in the Middle East. And that era has just
begun.
Finally, I want to be very clear that my strategy for ending the war in Iraq does not end with military plans or
diplomatic agendas -- it endures through our commitment to uphold our sacred trust with every man and
woman who has served in Iraq.
You make up a fraction of the American population, but in an age when so many people and institutions
have acted irresponsibly, you did the opposite -- you volunteered to bear the heaviest burden. And for you
and for your families, the war does not end when you come home. It lives on in memories of your fellow
soldiers, sailors, airmen and Marines who gave their lives. It endures in the wound that is slow to heal, the
disability that isn’t going away, the dream that wakes you at night, or the stiffening in your spine when a car
backfires down the street.
You and your families have done your duty -- now a grateful nation must do ours. That is why I am
increasing the number of soldiers and Marines, so that we lessen the burden on those who are serving. And
that is why I have committed to expanding our system of veterans health care to serve more patients, and to
provide better care in more places. We will continue building new wounded warrior facilities across America,
and invest in new ways of identifying and treating the signature wounds of this war: Post-Traumatic Stress
Disorder and Traumatic Brain Injury, as well as other combat injuries.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We also know that service does not end with the person wearing the uniform. In her visits with military
families across the country, my wife Michelle has learned firsthand about the unique burden that your
families endure every day. I want you to know this: military families are a top priority for Michelle and me,
and they will be a top priority for my administration. We’ll raise military pay, and continue providing quality
child-care, job-training for spouses, and expanded counseling and outreach to families that have known the
separation and stress of war. We will also heed the lesson of history -- that those who fight in battle can
form the backbone of our middle class -- by implementing a 21st century GI Bill to help our veterans live
their dreams.
As a nation, we have had our share of debates about the war in Iraq. It has, at times, divided us as a
people. To this very day, there are some Americans who want to stay in Iraq longer, and some who want to
leave faster. But there should be no disagreement on what the men and women of our military have
achieved.
And so I want to be very clear: We sent our troops to Iraq to do away with Saddam Hussein’s regime -- and
you got the job done. We kept our troops in Iraq to help establish a sovereign government -- and you got the
job done. And we will leave the Iraqi people with a hard-earned opportunity to live a better life -- that is your
achievement; that is the prospect that you have made possible.
There are many lessons to be learned from what we’ve experienced. We have learned that America must
go to war with clearly defined goals, which is why I’ve ordered a review of our policy in Afghanistan. We
have learned that we must always weigh the costs of action, and communicate those costs candidly to the
American people, which is why I’ve put Iraq and Afghanistan into my budget. We have learned that in the
21st century, we must use all elements of American power to achieve our objectives, which is why I am
committed to building our civilian national security capacity so that the burden is not continually pushed on
to our military. We have learned that our political leaders must pursue the broad and bipartisan support that
our national security policies depend upon, which is why I will consult with Congress and in carrying out my
plans. And we have learned the importance of working closely with friends and allies, which is why we are
launching a new era of engagement in the world.
The starting point for our policies must always be the safety of the American people. I know that you -- the
men and women of the finest fighting force in the history of the world -- can meet any challenge, and defeat
any foe. And as long as I am your Commander-in-Chief, I promise you that I will only send you into harm’s
way when it is absolutely necessary, and provide you with the equipment and support you need to get the
job done. That is the most important lesson of all -- for the consequences of war are dire, the sacrifices
immeasurable.
You know because you have seen those sacrifices. You have lived them. And we all honor them.
"Semper Fidelis" -- it means always being faithful to Corps, and to country, and to the memory of fallen
comrades like Corporal Jonathan Yale and Lance Corporal Jordan Haerter. These young men enlisted in a
time of war, knowing they would face great danger. They came here, to Camp Lejeune, as they trained for
their mission. And last April, they were standing guard in Anbar. In an age when suicide is a weapon, they
were suddenly faced with an oncoming truck filled with explosives. These two Marines stood their ground.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
These two Marines opened fire. And these two Marines stopped that truck. When the thousands of pounds
of explosives detonated, they had saved fifty Marines and Iraqi police who would have been in the truck’s
path, but Corporal Yale and Lance Corporal Haerter lost their own lives. Jonathan was 21. Jordan was 19.
In the town where Jordan Haerter was from, a bridge was dedicated in his name. One Marine who traveled
to the ceremony said: "We flew here from all over the country to pay tribute to our friend Jordan, who risked
his life to save us. We wouldn’t be here without him."
America’s time in Iraq is filled with stories of men and women like this. Their names are written into bridges
and town squares. They are etched into stones at Arlington, and in quiet places of rest across our land.
They are spoken in schools and on city blocks. They live on in the memories of those who wear your
uniform, in the hearts of those they loved, and in the freedom of the nation they served.
Each American who has served in Iraq has their own story. Each of you has your own story. And that story
is now a part of the history of the United States of America -- a nation that exists only because free men and
women have bled for it from the beaches of Normandy to the deserts of Anbar; from the mountains of Korea
to the streets of Kandahar. You teach us that the price of freedom is great. Your sacrifice should challenge
all of us -- every single American -- to ask what we can do to be better citizens.
There will be more danger in the months ahead. We will face new tests and unforeseen trials. But thanks to
the sacrifices of those who have served, we have forged hard-earned progress, we are leaving Iraq to its
people, and we have begun the work of ending this war.
Thank you, God Bless you, and God Bless the United States of America. Semper Fi.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329551" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Jefferson-Jackson_Dinner.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Jefferson-Jackson%20Dinner.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at the Jefferson-Jackson Dinner
delivered 10 November 2007, Veterans Memorial Auditorium, Des Moines, Iowa

Thank you so much. To -- To the great Governor of Iowa and Lieutenant Governor of Iowa; to
my dear friend Tom Harkin for the outstanding work that he does; to the congressional
delegation of Iowa that is doing outstanding work; and to Nancy Pelosi, Madam Speaker,
thank you all for the wonderful welcome and the wonderful hospitality.
I love you back. [to audience]
A little less than one year from today, you will go into the voting booth and you will select the
President of the United States of America. Now, here’s the good news -- the name George W.
Bush will not be on the ballot. The name of my cousin Dick Cheney will not be on the ballot.
We’ve been trying to hide that for a long time. Everybody has a black sheep in the family. The
era of Scooter Libby justice, and Brownie incompetence, and Karl Rove politics will finally be
over.
But the question you’re going to have to ask yourself when you caucus in January and you
vote in November is, “What’s next for America?” We are in a defining moment in our
history. Our nation is at war. The planet is in peril. The dream that so many generations
fought for feels as if it’s slowly slipping away. We are working harder for less. We’ve never
paid more for health care or for college. It’s harder to save and it’s harder to retire. And most
of all we’ve lost faith that our leaders can or will do anything about it.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We were promised compassionate conservatism and all we got was Katrina and wiretaps. We
were promised a uniter, and we got a President who could not even lead the half of the
country that voted for him. We were promised a more ethical and more efficient government,
and instead we have a town called Washington that is more corrupt and more wasteful than it
was before. And the only mission that was ever accomplished is to use fear and falsehood to
take this country to a war that should have never been authorized and should have never
been waged.
It is because of these failures that America is listening, intently, to what we say here today -not just Democrats, but Republicans and Independents who’ve lost trust in their government,
but want to believe again. And it is because of these failures that we not only have a moment
of great challenge, but also a moment of great opportunity. We have a chance to bring the
country together in a new majority -- to finally tackle problems that George Bush made far
worse, but that had festered long before George Bush ever took office -- problems that we’ve
talked about year after year after year after year.
And that is why the same old Washington textbook campaigns just won’t do in this election.
That’s why not answering questions ‘cause we are afraid our answers won’t be popular just
won’t do. That’s why telling the American people what we think they want to hear instead of
telling the American people what they need to hear just won’t do. Triangulating and polldriven positions because we’re worried about what Mitt or Rudy might say about us just won’t
do. If we are really serious about wining this election Democrats, we can’t live in fear of losing
it.
This party -- the party of Jefferson and Jackson, of Roosevelt and Kennedy -- has always
made the biggest difference in the lives of the American people when we led, not by polls, but
by principle; not by calculation, but by conviction; when we summoned the entire nation to a
common purpose -- a higher purpose. And I run for the Presidency of the United States of
America because that’s the party America needs us to be right now.
A party that offers not just a difference in policies, but a difference in leadership.
A party that doesn’t just focus on how to win but why we should.
A party that doesn’t just offer change as a slogan, but real, meaningful change -- change that
America can believe in.
That’s why I’m in this race. That’s why I am running for the Presidency of the United States of
America -- to offer change that we can believe in.
I am in this race to tell the corporate lobbyists that their days of setting the agenda in
Washington are over. I have done more than any other candidate in this race to take on
lobbyists -- and won. They have not funded my campaign, they will not get a job in my White
House, and they will not drown out the voices of the American people when I am President.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’m in this race to take those tax breaks away from companies that are moving jobs overseas
and put them in the pockets of hard working Americans who deserve it. And I won’t raise the
minimum wage every ten years -- I will raise it to keep pace so that workers don’t’ fall behind.
That is why I am in it. To protect the American worker. To fight for the American worker.
I’m in this race because I want to stop talking about the outrage of 47 million Americans
without health care and start actually doing something about it. I expanded health care in
Illinois by bringing Democrats and Republicans together. By taking on the insurance
industry. And that is how I will make certain that every single American in this country has
health care they can count on and I won’t do it twenty years from now, I won’t do it ten years
from now, I will do it by the end of my first term as President of the United States of America.
I run for president to make sure that every American child has the best education that we
have to offer -- from the day they are born to the day they graduate from college. And I won’t
just talk about how great teachers are -- as President I will reward them for their greatness -by raising salaries and giving them more support. That’s why I’m in this race.
I am running for President because I am sick and tired of democrats thinking that the only
way to look tough on national security is by talking, and acting, and voting like George Bush
Republicans.
When I am this party’s nominee, my opponent will not be able to say that I voted for the war
in Iraq; or that I gave George Bush the benefit of the doubt on Iran; or that I supported BushCheney policies of not talking to leaders that we don’t like. And he will not be able to say that
I wavered on something as fundamental as whether or not it is ok for America to torture -because it is never ok. That’s why I am in it.
As President, I will end the war in Iraq. We will have our troops home in sixteen months. I will
close Guantanamo. I will restore habeas corpus. I will finish the fight against Al Qaeda. And I
will lead the world to combat the common threats of the 21st century -- nuclear weapons and
terrorism; climate change and poverty; genocide and disease. And I will send once more a
message to those yearning faces beyond our shores that says, “You matter to us. Your future
is our future. And our moment is now.”
America, our moment is now. Our moment is now. I don’t want to spend the next year or the
next four years re-fighting the same fights that we had in the 1990s. I don’t want to pit Red
America against Blue America, I want to be the President of the United States of America.
And if those Republicans come at me with the same fear-mongering and swift-boating that
they usually do, then I will take them head on. Because I believe the American people are
tired of fear and tired of distractions and tired of diversions. We can make this election not
about fear, but about the future. And that won’t just be a Democratic victory; that will be an
American victory. And that is a victory America needs right now.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I am not in this race to fulfill some long-held ambitions or because I believe it’s somehow
owed to me. I never expected to be here, I always knew this journey was improbable. I’ve
never been on a journey that wasn’t. I am running in this race because of what Dr. King called
“the fierce urgency of now.” Because I believe that there’s such a thing as being too late.
And that hour is almost upon us.
I don’t want to wake up four years from now and find out that millions of Americans still lack
health care because we couldn’t take on the insurance industry.
I don’t want to see that the oceans have risen a few more inches. The planet has reached a
point of no return because we couldn’t find a way to stop buying oil from dictators.
I don’t want to see more American lives put at risk because no one had the judgment or the
courage to stand up against a misguided war before we sent our troops into fight.
I don’t want to see homeless veterans on the streets. I don’t want to send another generation
of American children to failing schools. I don’t want that future for my daughters. I don’t want
that future for your sons. I do not want that future for America.
I’m in this race for the same reason that I fought for jobs for the jobless and hope for the
hopeless on the streets of Chicago; for the same reason I fought for justice and equality as a
civil rights lawyer; for the same reason that I fought for Illinois families for over a decade.
Because I will never forget that the only reason that I’m standing here today is because
somebody, somewhere stood up for me when it was risky. Stood up when it was hard. Stood
up when it wasn’t popular. And because that somebody stood up, a few more stood up. And
then a few thousand stood up. And then a few million stood up. And standing up, with courage
and clear purpose, they somehow managed to change the world.
That’s why I’m running, Iowa -- to give our children and grandchildren the same chances
somebody gave me.
That’s why I’m running, Democrats -- to keep the American Dream alive for those who still
hunger for opportunity, who still thirst for equality.
That’s why I’m asking you to stand with me, that’s why I’m asking you to caucus for me,
that’s why I am asking you to stop settling for what the cynics say we have to accept.
In this election -- in this moment -- let us reach for what we know is possible. A nation
healed. A world repaired. An America that believes again.
Thank you very much everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329947" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Joplin_Tornado_Victims_Memorial.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Joplin%20Tornado%20Victims%20Memorial.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at Memorial for Joplin Tornado Victims

Delivered 29 May 2011, Missouri Southern University, Joplin Missouri

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you, Governor, for that powerful message, but more importantly, for being here with
and for your people every step of the way.
We are grateful to you, to Reverend Gariss, Father Monaghan. I’m so glad you got in that
tub. To Reverend Brown for that incredibly powerful message.
To Senator Claire McCaskill, who’s been here, and Congressman Billy Long; Mayor Woolston.
To Craig Fugate. It doesn’t get a lot of attention, but he heads up FEMA, our emergency
response at the federal level. He’s been going from Tuscaloosa to Joplin and everywhere in
between tirelessly doing outstanding work. We’re grateful for him. Gail McGovern, the
President of the National Red Cross, which has contributed mightily to the rebuilding efforts
here.
Most of all, to the family and friends of all those who’ve been lost and all those who’ve been
affected.
Today we gather to celebrate the lives of those we’ve lost to the storms here in Joplin and
across the Midwest, to keep in our prayers those still missing, to mourn with their families, to
stand together during this time of pain and trial.
And as Reverend Brown alluded to, the question that weighs on us at a time like this
is: Why? Why our town? Why our home? Why my son, or husband, or wife, or sister, or
friend? Why?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We do not have the capacity to answer. We can’t know when a terrible storm will strike, or
where, or the severity of the devastation that it may cause. We can’t know why we’re tested
with the loss of a loved one, or the loss of a home where we’ve lived a lifetime.
These things are beyond our power to control. But that does not mean we are powerless in
the face of adversity. How we respond when the storm strikes is up to us. How we live in the
aftermath of tragedy and heartache, that’s within our control. And it’s in these moments,
through our actions, that we often see the glimpse of what makes life worth living in the first
place.
In the last week, that’s what Joplin has not just taught Missouri, not just taught America, but
has taught the world. I was overseas in the aftermath of the storm, and had world leaders
coming up to me saying, let the people of Joplin know we are with them; we’re thinking about
them; we love them.
Because the world saw how Joplin responded. A university turned itself into a makeshift
hospital. Some of you used your pickup trucks as ambulances, carrying the injured -- on doors
that served as stretchers. Your restaurants have rushed food to people in need. Businesses
have filled trucks with donations. You’ve waited in line for hours to donate blood to people you
know, but also to people you’ve never met. And in all this, you have lived the words of
Scripture:
We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed;
we are perplexed, but not in despair;
Persecuted, but not forsaken;
cast down, but not destroyed....
As the governor said, you have shown the world what it means to love thy neighbor. You’ve
banded together. You’ve come to each other’s aid. You’ve demonstrated a simple truth: that
amid heartbreak and tragedy, no one is a stranger. Everybody is a brother. Everybody is a
sister. We can all love one another.
As you move forward in the days ahead, I know that rebuilding what you’ve lost won’t be
easy. I just walked through some of the neighborhoods that have been affected, and you look
out at the landscape, and there have to be moments where you just say, where to begin? How
to start? There are going to be moments where after the shock has worn off, you feel
alone. But there’s no doubt in my mind what the people of this community can do. There’s no
doubt in my mind that Joplin will rebuild. And as President, I can promise you your country
will be there with you every single step of the way. We will be with you every step of the
way. We’re not going anywhere. The cameras may leave. The spotlight may shift. But we will
be with you every step of the way until Joplin is restored and this community is back on its
feet. We’re not going anywhere.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That is not just my promise; that’s America’s promise. It’s a promise I make here in Joplin;
it’s a promise I made down in Tuscaloosa, or in any of the communities that have been hit by
these devastating storms over the last few weeks.
Now, there have been countless acts of kindness and selflessness in recent days. We’ve
already heard the record of some of that. But perhaps none are as inspiring as what took
place when the storm was bearing down on Joplin, threatening an entire community with utter
destruction. And in the face of winds that showed no mercy, no regard for human life, that did
not discriminate by race or faith or background, it was ordinary people, swiftly tested, who
said, “I’m willing to die right now so that someone else might live.”
It was the husband who threw himself over his wife as their house came apart around them.
It was the mother who shielded her young son.
It was Dean Wells, a husband and father who loved to sing and whistle in his church
choir. Dean was working a shift at the Home Depot, managing the electrical department,
when the siren rang out. He sprang into action, moving people to safety. Over and over again,
he went back for others, until a wall came down on top of him. In the end, most of the
building was destroyed, but not where Dean had directed his coworkers and his customers.
There was a young man named Christopher Lucas who was 26 years old. Father of two
daughters; third daughter on the way. Just like any other night, Christopher was doing his job
as manager on duty at Pizza Hut. And then he heard the storm coming.
It was then when this former sailor quickly ushered everybody into the walk-in freezer. The
only problem was, the freezer door wouldn’t stay closed from the inside. So as the tornado
bore down on this small storefront on Range Line Road, Christopher left the freezer to find a
rope or a cord or anything to hold the door shut. He made it back just in time, tying a piece of
bungee cord to the handle outside, wrapping the other end around his arm, holding the door
closed with all his might.
And Christopher held it as long as he could, until he was pulled away by the incredible force of
the storm. He died saving more than a dozen people in that freezer.
You see, there are heroes all around us, all the time. They walk by us on the sidewalk, and
they sit next to us in class. They pass us in the aisle wearing an orange apron. They come to
our table at a restaurant and ask us what we’d like to order.
Just as we can’t know why tragedy strikes in the first place, we may never fully understand
where these men and women find the courage and strength to do what they did. What we do
know is that in a split-second moment where there’s little time for internal reflection or
debate, the actions of these individuals were driven by love -- love for a family member, love
for a friend, or just love for a fellow human being.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s good to know. In a world that can be cruel and selfish, it’s this knowledge -- the
knowledge that we are inclined to love one another, that we’re inclined to do good, to be good
-- that causes us to take heart. We see with fresh eyes what’s precious and so fragile and so
important to us. We put aside our petty grievances and our minor disagreements. We see
ourselves in the hopes and hardships of others. And in the stories of people like Dean and
people like Christopher, we remember that each us contains reserves of resolve and
compassion. There are heroes all around us, all the time.
And so, in the wake of this tragedy, let us live up to their example -- to make each day count
-- to live with the sense of mutual regard -- to live with that same compassion that they
demonstrated in their final hours. We are called by them to do everything we can to be worthy
of the chance that we’ve been given to carry on.
I understand that at a memorial yesterday for Dean, his wife decided to play a recording of
Dean whistling a song he loved -- Amazing Grace. The lyrics are a fitting tribute to what Joplin
has been through.
Through many dangers, toils and snares
I have already come;
'Tis Grace that brought me safe thus far
and Grace will lead me home…
Yea, when this flesh and heart shall fail,
And mortal life shall cease,
I shall possess within the veil,
A life of joy and peace.
May those we’ve lost know peace, and may Grace guide the people of Joplin home.
God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.
Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329793" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Justice_Stevens_and_West_Virginia_Mining_Tragedy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Justice%20Stevens%20and%20West%20Virginia%20Mining%20Tragedy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Justice Stevens Retirement and West Virginia Mining Tragedy
delivered 9 April 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. I want to say a few words about the tragedy that took place this
week in West Virginia, but before I do, I’d first like to comment on the news that Justice John
Paul Stevens will retire from the Supreme Court at the end of its current term.
When President Ford was faced with a Supreme Court vacancy shortly after the nation was
still recovering from the Watergate scandal, he wanted a nominee who was brilliant, nonideological, pragmatic, and committed above all to justice, integrity, and the rule of law. He
found that nominee in John Paul Stevens.
Justice Stevens has courageously served his country from the moment he enlisted the day
before Pearl Harbor to his long and distinguished tenure on the Supreme Court. During that
tenure, he has stood as an impartial guardian of the law. He has worn the judicial robe with
honor and humility. He has applied the Constitution and the laws of the land with fidelity and
restraint. He will soon turn 90 this month, but he leaves his position at the top of his game.
His leadership will be sorely missed, and I just had an opportunity to speak with him and told
him on behalf of a grateful nation, that I thanked him for his service.
As Justice Stevens expressed to me in the letter announcing his retirement, it is in the best
interests of the Supreme Court to have a successor appointed and confirmed before the next
term begins. And so I will move quickly to name a nominee, as I did with Justice Sotomayor.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Once again, I view the process of selecting a Supreme Court nominee as among my most
serious responsibilities as President. And while we cannot replace Justice Stevens’ experience
or wisdom, I will seek someone in the coming weeks with similar qualities -- an independent
mind, a record of excellence and integrity, a fierce dedication to the rule of law, and a keen
understanding of how the law affects the daily lives of the American people. It will also be
someone who, like Justice Stevens, knows that in a democracy, powerful interests must not
be allowed to drown out the voices of ordinary citizens. Much like they did with Justice
Sotomayor, I hope the Senate will move quickly in the coming weeks to debate and then
confirm my nominee so that the new Justice is seated in time for the fall term.
Now, let me say a few words about what has happened in West Virginia.
This has been an unimaginably difficult week for the people who live near Montcoal. Thirtyone workers were inside the Upper Big Branch mine when an explosion ripped through its
walls on Monday afternoon. Two were saved. Twenty-five were lost. And for the four who
remain missing, we are praying for a miracle.
I want to offer my deepest condolences to the friends and the families of the fathers and the
husbands and brothers, nephews and sons who were killed in this accident. I’m also in awe of
the courage and selflessness shown by the rescue teams who’ve risked their lives over and
over and over this week for the chance to save another. They’ve worked around the clock,
with little sleep, for the past few days, and this nation owes them a debt of gratitude.
Now, mining has a long and proud history in West Virginia. For many families and
communities, it’s not just a way to make a living; it’s a way of life. And the jobs they do in
these mines help bring heat and electricity to millions of Americans.
It’s a profession that’s not without risks and danger, and the workers and their families know
that. But their government and their employers know that they owe it to these families to do
everything possible to ensure their safety when they go to work each day.
When I was in the Senate, I supported the efforts of Senators Byrd and Rockefeller to try and
improve mine safety, but it’s clear that more needs to be done. And that’s why I’ve asked my
Secretary of Labor as well as the head of the Mine Safety and Health Administration to give
me a preliminary report next week on what went wrong and why it went wrong so badly, so
that we can take the steps necessary to prevent such accidents in the future.
Because mining is a tradition that’s often passed down through generations, it’s not
uncommon to see an entire family choose this line of work. And sadly, when a tragedy like
this occurs, it’s also not uncommon to lose almost an entire family all at once.
I spoke to some surviving members of one such family on Wednesday. This week, Tim Davis,
and two of his nephews, Josh, age 25, and Cory, age 20, were killed in the explosion in the
Upper Big Branch mine.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Rescuers have reported that Tim and his two nephews were all found together. Two other
members of their families that worked in the mine were able to escape unharmed.
Before he left for the mine on Monday, Josh wrote a letter for his girlfriend and young
daughter. And in it, he said, “If anything happens to me, I’ll be looking down from heaven at
you all. I love you. Take care of my baby. Tell her that daddy loves her, she’s beautiful,
she’s funny. Just take care of my baby girl.”
Reflecting on that letter, and the losses she endured in just one week, Josh’s mother Pam
simply said, “It is just West Virginia. When something bad happens, we come together.”
When something bad happens, we come together.
Through tragedy and heartache, that’s the spirit that has sustained this community, and this
country, for over 200 years. And as we pray for the souls of those we’ve lost, and the safe
return of those who are missing, we are also sustained by the words of the Psalm that are
particularly poignant right now. Those words read: “You, O Lord, keep my lamp burning; my
God turns my darkness into light.”
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329824" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Kalamazoo_HS_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Kalamazoo%20HS%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Speech at Kalamazoo Central High School
delivered 7 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Please be seated. Hello, Giants. It is good -- It is good
to be here, and congratulations Class of 2010. I am honored to be part of this special
occasion.
Audience Member: We love you!
President Obama: And I love you back. Let me acknowledge your extraordinary governor,
Jennifer Granholm. Superintendent Rice, thank you for your inspiring words. Your mayor,
Bobby Hopewell, who I understand is a proud Kalamazoo graduate himself.
Thanks to Principal Washington for -- not just for the warm introduction, but for his
enthusiasm and his energy and his leadership and his nice singing voice. Thank you. To all
the trustees, to the alumni, to the parents, grandparents, aunts, uncles, cousins -- everybody
who’s been a part of this extraordinary place.
And I want to recognize our student speakers. Cindy, who embodies the best of our traditions
in this country -- arrived three or four years ago and graduates as the valedictorian -- this is
what is continually replenishing the energy and the dynamism and the innovation of this
country, and we could not be prouder of you. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And to Simon, I’m glad that, according to the Constitution, you can’t run till you’re 35. So I’ll
be long gone by then. But it gives me great confidence to know that we’ve got such incredible
young leaders who are going to be remaking the world in so many different ways.
Now, recently, an article from your local paper, the Kalamazoo Gazette -- was brought to my
attention. And it ran just after this school had been chosen as one of the six finalists in our
Race to the Top Commencement Challenge. And for those who aren’t aware of it, this is a
contest to highlight schools that promote academic excellence, personal responsibility and
that best prepare students for college and careers. And this article in the Gazette quoted a
young lady named Kelsey Wilson. Where is -- Is Kelsey here? She right over there? Anyway Audience Member: She’s here.
President Obama: She’s over there? Hey, Kelsey. How are you?
So Kelsey was quoted as saying, “We’re the kind of school that never gets credit for what we
do. And our school is amazing.” This is what Kelsey said, “Our school is amazing.”
Well, Kelsey, Class of 2010, members of the Kalamazoo community, I’m here tonight because
after three rounds of competition, with more than a thousand schools, and more than 170,000
votes cast, I know -- and America knows -- what you’ve done at Kalamazoo Central. You are
amazing! We know. We know. Our amazing Secretary of Education Arne Duncan knows.
Folks in Washington know, folks across the country know, and hopefully after tonight,
everybody knows.
Now, together as a community, you’ve embraced the motto of this school district: “Every
child, every opportunity, every time.” Every time. Every child, every opportunity, every time,
because you believe, like I do, that every young person, every child -- regardless of what they
look like, where they come from, how much money their parents have -- every child who
walks through your schoolhouse doors deserves a quality education. No exceptions.
And I’m here tonight because I think that America has a lot to learn from Kalamazoo Central
about what makes for a successful school in this new century. You’ve got educators raising
standards and then inspiring their students to meet them. You’ve got community members
who are stepping up as tutors and mentors and coaches. You got parents who are taking an
active interest in their child’s education -- attending those teacher conferences, yes, turning
off the TV once in a while, making sure homework gets done.
Arne Duncan is here tonight because these are the values, these are the changes that he’s
encouraging in every school in this nation. It’s the key to our future.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
But the most important ingredient is you: students who raised your sights, who aimed high,
who invested yourselves in your own success. It’s no accident that so many of you have
received college admissions letters, Class of 2010. That didn’t happen by accident. It
happened because you worked for it. As the superintendent said, you earned it.
So, Kelsey, I agree with you. What you’ve done here at Kalamazoo Central is amazing. I am
proud of you. Your parents are proud of you. Your teachers, your principal -- we’re all
incredibly proud.
Now, graduates, all these folks around you, I have to say, though, with the cameras and the
beaming smiles -- they’ve worked hard to give you everything you need to pursue your
dreams and fulfill your God-given talent. Unfortunately, you can’t take them with you when
you leave here. No one is going to go follow you around making sure that you’re getting to
class on time, making sure you’re doing your work. Nobody is going to be doing that for you.
Going forward, that’s all on you -- responsibility for your success is squarely on your
shoulders.
And the question I have for you today is this: What is each -- what are each of you going to
do to meet that responsibility?
Now, right now you’re getting plenty of advice from everybody. Some of it’s helpful. And so I
hate to pile on with advice. But while I’m here -- what the heck. I figure I should offer a few
thoughts based on my own experiences, but also based on my hopes for all of you, and for
our country, in the years ahead.
First, understand that your success in life won’t be determined just by what’s given to you, or
what happens to you, but by what you do with all that’s given to you; what you do with all
that happens to you; how hard you try; how far you push yourself; how high you’re willing to
reach. True excellence only comes with perseverance.
This wasn’t something I really understood when I was back your age. My father, some of you
know, left my family when I was two years old. I was raised by a single mom and my
grandparents. And sometimes I had a tendency to goof off. As my mother put it, I had a
tendency sometimes to act a bit casual about my future. Sometimes I was rebellious.
Sometimes I partied a little too much. Oh, yes, yes, this is a cautionary tale. Don’t be
cheering when I say that. Studied just enough to get by. I thought hard work, responsibility,
that’s old-fashioned. That’s just people want to tell me what to do.
But after a few years, after I was living solely on my own and I realized that living solely for
my own entertainment wasn’t so entertaining anymore, that it wasn’t particularly satisfying
anymore, that I didn’t seem to be making much of a ripple in the world, I started to change
my tune. I realized that by refusing to apply myself, there was nothing I could point to that I
was proud of that would last.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, you come of an age in a popular culture that actually reinforces this approach to life.
You watch TV, and basically what it says is you can be rich and successful without much
effort; you just have to become a celebrity. If you can achieve some reality TV notoriety,
that’s better than lasting achievement. We live in a culture that tells you there’s a quick fix
for every problem and a justification for every selfish desire. And all of you were raised with
cell phones and iPods, and texting and emails, and you’re able to call up a fact, or a song, or a
friend with the click of a button. So you’re used to instant gratification.
But meaningful achievement, lasting success -- it doesn’t happen in an instant. It’s not about
luck, it’s not about a sudden stroke of genius. It’s not usually about talent. It’s usually about
daily effort, the large choices and the small choices that you make that add up over time. It’s
about the skills you build, and the knowledge you accumulate, and the energy you invest in
every task, no matter how trivial or menial it may seem at the time.
You’ve got an alum who plays for the Yankees, I hear. He’s supposed to be pretty good.
Now, Derek Jeter wasn’t born playing shortstop for the Yankees. He got there through years
of effort. And his high school baseball coach once remarked, “I’m surprised he still doesn’t
have blisters and that I don’t have the blisters on my hands from hitting ground balls just for
Derek.” He always wanted more: ‘How about one more turn in the batting cage? Or 25 more
ground balls?’”
Thomas Edison tested more than 6,000 different materials for just one tiny part of the light
bulb that he invented. Think about that -- 6,000 tests. J.K. Rowling’s first Harry Potter book
was rejected 12 times before it was finally published. Mozart was a musical prodigy, but he
practiced for hours each day -- accumulating thousands of hours at the piano by the time he
was just six years old. I understand that your boys’ basketball team did pretty good. First
state champions for the first time in 59 years. That didn’t happen by accident. They put in
work. They put in effort.
So, today, you all have a rare and valuable chance to pursue your own passions, chase your
own dreams without incurring a mountain of debt. What an incredible gift. So you’ve got no
excuse for giving anything less than your best effort. No excuses.
That’s my second piece of advice, very simple: Don’t make excuses. Take responsibility not
just for your successes; take responsibility where you fall short as well.
Now, the truth is, no matter how hard you work, you’re not going to ace every class -- well,
maybe Cindy will, but -- but you’re not going to ace every class. You’re not going to succeed
the first time you try something. There are going to be times when you screw up. There will
be times where you hurt people you love. There will be times where you make a mistake and
you stray from the values that you hold most deeply.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And when that happens, it’s the easiest thing in the world to start looking around for
somebody else to blame. Your professor was too hard; your boss was a jerk; the coaches -was playing favorites; your friend just didn’t understand. Your wife -- oh, no. I’m just
messing with Michelle right there. That was all in fun.
No, but this is an easy habit to get into. You see it every day in Washington -- every day -folks calling each other names, making all sorts of accusations on television. Everybody is
always pointing a finger at somebody else. You notice that?
Now, this community could have easily gone down that road. This community could have
made excuses -- well, our kids have fewer advantages, our schools have fewer resources -how can we compete? You could have spent years pointing fingers -- blaming parents,
blaming teachers, blaming the principal, blaming the superintendent, blaming the President.
But that’s -- Class of 2010, I want you to pay attention on this because that’s not what
happened. Instead, this community was honest with itself about where you were falling
short. You resolved to do better, push your kids harder, open their minds wider, expose them
to all kinds of ideas and people and experiences.
So, graduates, I hope you’ll continue those efforts. Don’t make excuses. And I hope that
wherever you go, you won’t narrow the broad intellectual and social exposure you’ve had here
at Kalamazoo Central -- instead, seek to expand it. Don’t just hang out with people who look
like you, or go to the same church you do, or share your political views. Broaden your circle
to include people with different backgrounds and life experiences. Because that’s how you’ll
end up learning what it’s like to walk in somebody else’s shoes. That’s how you’ll come to
understand the challenges other people face.
And this is not just an academic exercise. It’s a way to broaden your ambit of concern and
learn to see yourselves in each other.
Which brings me to my final piece of advice for today, and that’s to give back, to be part of
something bigger than yourselves. Hitch your wagon to something that is bigger than
yourselves.
I know that so many of you have already served your community through efforts like your
Stuff the Bus food drives and groups like Activists for Action. And I commend you for that.
But I also know that many of you are the first in your family to go to college. And right about
now, you may be feeling all the weight of their hopes and expectations coming down on your
shoulders.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And once you start juggling those classes and activities and that campus job, and you get
caught up in your own dreams and your own anxieties and dating -- you may feel like you’ve
got enough on your plate just dealing with your own life. It might be easier to turn the
channel when the news disturbs you, to avert your eyes when you pass that homeless man on
the street, to tell yourself that other people’s problems really aren’t your responsibility.
But just think about what the consequence of that approach to life would have been if that’s
how folks had acted here in this community. What if those Kalamazoo Promise donors had
said to themselves, “Well, you know what, I can pay for my own kid’s education. Why should
I have to pay for somebody else’s?”
Think about the consequences for our country. What if our Founding Fathers had said, “You
know, colonialism is kind of oppressive, but I’m doing okay, my family’s doing all right, why
should I spend my summer in Philadelphia arguing about a Constitution?”
What if those abolitionists, those civil right workers had said, “You know, slavery is wrong,
segregation is wrong, but it’s kind of dangerous to get mixed up in that stuff. I don’t have
time for all those meetings and marches. I think I’m going to take a pass. I hope it works
out, but that’s not something I want to do.”
I want you to think for a minute about the extraordinary men and women who’ve worn our
country’s uniform and have given their last full measure of devotion to keep us safe and free.
What if they said -- what if they said, “I really do love this country, but why should I sacrifice
so much for people I’ve never even met?” Young men and women in uniform right now
making those sacrifices.
So you and I are here today because those people made a different choice. They chose to
step up. They chose to serve. And I hope you will follow their example, because there is
work to be done, and your country needs you. We’ve got an economy to rebuild. We’ve got
children to educate. We’ve got diseases to cure. We’ve got threats to face. We’ve got an oil
spill to clean up. We’ve got clean energy to discover. And it is going to be up to you to meet
all of those challenges -- to build industries and make discoveries and inspire the next
generation. It’s going to be up to you to heal the divide that continues to afflict our world.
Now, I’m not saying you got to do it here all at once. But as Theodore Roosevelt once put it,
I’m asking you to “Do what you can, with what you’ve got, where you are.” And I can
guarantee that wherever your journey takes you, there are going to be children who need
mentors and senior citizens who need assistance, folks down on their luck who could use a
helping hand.
And once you’ve reached out and formed those connections, you’ll find it’s a little harder to
numb yourself to other people’s suffering. It’s a little harder to ignore the national debates
about the issues that affect their lives and yours.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
In the end, service binds us to each other -- and to our communities and our country -- in a
way that nothing else can. It’s how we become more fully American.
That’s the reason those donors created the Kalamazoo Promise in the first place -- not for
recognition or reward, but because of their connection to this community; because their belief
in your potential; because their faith that you would use this gift not just to enrich your own
lives, but the lives of others and the life of the nation.
And I’m told that soon after the Promise was established, a first grader approached the
superintendent at the time and declared to her: “I’m going to college.” First grader. “I’m
going to college. I don’t know what it is, but I’m going.”
We may never know those donors’ names, but we know how they helped bring this
community together and how you’ve embraced their Promise not just as a gift to be
appreciated, but a responsibility to be fulfilled. We know how they have helped inspire an
entire generation of young people here in Kalamazoo to imagine a different future for
themselves.
And graduates, today, I’m asking you to pay them back by seeking to have the same kind of
impact with your own lives; by pursuing excellence in everything you do; by serving this
country that you love.
I know that you can do it. After all, you are the Giants -- and with the education you’ve
gotten here, there’s nothing you can’t do.
Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you. And God bless the United States of
America. And God bless the Class of 2010.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329727" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Kennedy_Center_Honorees_2009.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Kennedy%20Center%20Honorees%202009.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Kennedy Center Honorees Reception Speech
delivered 6 December 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

President Obama: Thank you. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to the White
House.
Little Child: Thank you.
President Obama: Thank you. This a season of joy, tradition and celebration.
Little Child: Yea!
President Obama: Yes! And today, it is our great joy to continue a White House holiday
tradition -- a celebration of performers who have transformed the arts in America, our
extraordinary Kennedy Center Honorees.
We are joined by Speaker Nancy Pelosi -- members of Congress and members of the Kennedy
family. I see sprinkled through the crowd some pretty fancy company, as well -- you've got
the Queen of Soul. You've got Martin Scorsese -- he knows a little bit about film-making. And
my spectacular First Lady is here, as well.
I especially want to thank the man who created these Honors more than three decades ago
and who has produced them ever since -- and whom I was proud to name as co-chair of the
President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities -- George Stevens, Jr. George.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I want to also thank Stephen Schwarzman and the Kennedy Center trustees. As well as
president Michael Kaiser and all those who sustain President Kennedy's vision of a "great
stage" celebrating "the best coming from this country and abroad."
These performers are indeed the best. They are also living reminders of a simple truth -- and
I'm going to steal a line from Michelle here -- the arts are not somehow apart from our
national life, the arts are at the heart of our national life.
In times of war and sacrifice, the arts -- and these artists -- remind us to sing and to laugh
and to live. In times of plenty, they challenge our conscience and implore us to remember the
least among us. In moments of division or doubt, they compel us to see the common values
that we share; the ideals to which we aspire, even if we sometimes fall short. In days of
hardship, they renew our hope that brighter days are still ahead.
So let's never forget that art strengthens America. And that's why we're making sure that
America strengthens its arts. It's why we're reenergizing the National Endowment of the
Arts. That's why we're helping to sustain jobs in arts communities across the country. It's
why we're supporting arts education in our schools, and why Michelle and I have hosted
students here at the White House to experience the best of American poetry and music.
And it's why we're honored to celebrate these five remarkable performers, who for decades
have helped to sustain and strengthen the American spirit.

You can't understand America without understanding jazz. And you can't understand jazz,
without understanding Dave Brubeck. His mother was a classical pianist with high hopes for
her son. And by the time he was four, he was playing himself. But by the time he was a
teenager, he was tearing up local honky-tonks. Even his mother had to admit: "There is some
hope for David after all."
And perhaps it was World War II -- his service in Patton's Army -- that changed his sound,
forcing him, as he said, to work the war out of his system by playing some "pretty vicious
piano." Whatever it was, his sound -- the distinctive harmonies and improvisations of the
Dave Brubeck Quartet -- would change jazz forever, prompting Time magazine to put him on
the cover as the leader of a new jazz age.
Having brought jazz into the mainstream, he then transformed it, with innovative new
rhythms on albums like Time Out -- the first jazz album to ever sell more than a million
copies and still one of the best-selling jazz albums of all time.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Dave Brubeck has never stopped reaching new audiences: Performing for Presidents from
Johnson to Reagan; composing orchestral tributes to Martin Luther King and Pope John Paul
II; and even in his 80s, dazzling jazz festivals across America.
And I know personally how powerful his performances can be. I mentioned this to Dave
backstage. In the few weeks that I spent with my father as a child -- he came to visit me for
about a month when I was young -- one of the things he did was to take me to my first jazz
concert, in Honolulu, Hawaii, in 1971, and it was a Dave Brubeck concert. And I've been a
jazz fan ever since. The world that he opened up for a 10-year-old boy was spectacular.
And, Dave, for the joy that you've given millions of jazz lovers like me, for your six decades of
revolutionary rhythms, you are rightly honored -- especially today, on your 89th birthday.

He was born Melvin Kaminsky -Mel Brooks: He never understood 4/4 time1 -President Obama: He's still messing it up, Mel. Mel, I'm trying to say something nice about
you, now. Please don't upstage me.
As you can tell, he was born to entertain. Or, as Mel Brooks explains it: "Look at Jewish
history -- unrelieved lamenting would be intolerable. So every 10 Jews, God designed one to
be crazy and amuse the others." According to Mel, "By the time I was five I knew I was that
one."
And by the time he was nine, this boy from Brooklyn had seen his first musical and dreamed
of becoming "the King of Broadway." But World War II meant service in the Army -- or, as he
put it, "the European Theater of Operations" with "lots of operations" and "very little theater."
Returning home, he found success cranking out quips for Sid Ceasar -- or as Mel described his
reaction to success -- "panic, hysteria, insomnia…and years of psychoanalysis."
That's right, we're reading back all your golden moments here, Mel.
Unfortunately, many of the punch lines that have defined Mel Brooks' success cannot be
repeated here. I was telling him that I went to see Blazing Saddles -- when I was 10. And he
pointed out that I think, according to the ratings, I should not have been allowed in the
theater. That's true. I think I had a fake ID. But the statute of limitations has passed.
Suffice it to say, in his satires and parodies, no cow is sacred, no genre is safe. He mocked
the musical -- and Hitler -- in The Producers, the western in Blazing Saddles, and the horror
film in Young Frankenstein.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But behind all the insanity and absurdity, there's been a method to Mel's madness. He's
described his work as "unearthing the truth that is all around us." And by illuminating
uncomfortable truths -- about racism and sexism and anti-Semitism -- he's been called "our
jester, asking us to see ourselves as we really are, determined that we laugh ourselves sane."
For this, he is one of the few people ever to receive an Emmy and a Grammy and an Oscar
and a Tony. Writer, director, actor, producer, composer…for his success -- and for his
psychoanalysis -- we honor Mel Brooks.

Reflecting on the challenge of finding one's voice, Grace Bumbry once said: "God has already
planted that in your throat. It's your job to free it up, to allow that beautiful thing to shine
through."
True to her name, Grace allowed her voice to shine through and touch all those within its
range. Around her family's piano in St. Louis; on the talent show where, as a teenager, she
moved the host to tears; and then, after being turned away from one music school because of
the color of her skin -- her triumphant international debut at the Paris Opera, when she was
just 23 years old.
With a pitch and presence like no other, she became a global sensation, moving audiences at
the great opera houses of the world. And performing here at the White House, it was said
that she moved Jacqueline Kennedy to lean over and gently sing along the words to the
President.
Defying every expectation, Grace Bumbry then made the transition from mezzo to soprano.
And over the decades that followed, she displayed a range like few others -- sometimes the
middle ranges as a mezzo; sometimes the highs of a soprano; sometimes both in the same
performance. Grace not only triumphed in different techniques, she transformed them.
And though she gave her final operatic performance in 1997, she appears in recitals to this
day. After nearly 50 years, she remains the definition of a diva in the classical sense: a
divine voice worthy of the heavens. And tonight -- 32 years after she performed at the first
Kennedy Center Honors for her mentor Marian Anderson -- we honor Grace Bumbry.

Growing up in New York City's Little Italy, Bobby De Niro always knew what he wanted to be.
Coming home from the movies, he'd act out the parts. At age 10, in his school play, he made
a rather unlikely debut in The Wizard of Oz as the Cowardly Lion.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
He has said: "my joy as an actor is to live different lives." And in more than 60 films
spanning more than 40 years, Robert De Niro has lived some of the most iconic and intense
characters ever portrayed on film. A dying baseball player in Bang The Drum Slowly. A
young Vito Corleone in The Godfather Part II. A deranged Taxi Driver. A troubled veteran in
The Deer Hunter. A brutal boxer in Raging Bull. A vengeful ex-con in Cape Fear. Let's hope
that Martin Scorsese was kidding when he said that Robert is "full of something that he
wanted to express." Don't worry, we did a vet on him before he came in tonight.
But alongside his Oscar-winning emotional audacity there's his versatility, from a coma patient
in Awakenings, to an ever-possessive father in Meet The Parents. There's his legendary
method -- not simply portraying characters, but becoming them, emotionally and physically.
And there is his love for his city -- whether it's directing films like A Bronx Tale, or founding
the film center and festival that has energized the arts in New York City.
It is perhaps the great irony of his life -- one of America's greatest cinematic actors is a man,
famously, of few words off the screen -- and I can attest to this. So I'll simply say, thank you,
Robert De Niro.

Finally, we honor the quiet kid from Jersey -- who grew up to become the rock 'n' roll laureate
of a generation. For in the life of our country only a handful of people have tapped the full
power of music to tell the real American story -- with honesty; from the heart; and one of
those people is Bruce Springsteen.
He has said: "I've always believed that people listen to your music not to find out about you,
but to find out about themselves." And for more than three decades, in his songs -- of
dreams and despair, of struggle and hope -- hardworking folks have seen themselves.
They've seen their great state of New Jersey. And they've seen their America -- in songs that
become anthems. Restless kids who were "Born to Run." The struggles of workers in "My
Hometown." The sacrifices of vets who were "Born in the U.S.A." Love and loss in "Streets of
Philadelphia." A resilient nation in "The Rising." And, this year, a country "Working on a
Dream."
It's no wonder that his tours are not so much concerts, but communions. There's a place for
everybody -- the sense that no matter who you are or what you do, everyone deserves their
shot at the American Dream; everybody deserves a little bit of dignity; everybody deserves to
be heard.
I've seen it myself. Bruce was a great fan -- a great friend over the last year, and when I
watched him on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial when he rocked the National Mall before my
inauguration, I thought it captured as well as anything the spirit of what America should be
about. On a day like that, and today, I remember: I'm the President, but he's The Boss.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And Bruce continues to inspire, along with his "house-rocking, earth-shaking" E Street Band.
At 60 years old, he's still filling stadiums, still whipping fans into a frenzy, still surfing the
crowd, still jumping off pianos, and still reaching new fans, and still being nominated for
Grammys. It's been a long road from that stage at Stone Pony in Asbury Park to this stage
today, but this much we know -- after more than 30 years and 120 million albums sold, Bruce
Springsteen is still one "cool rockin' Daddy."

Dave Brubeck. Mel Brooks. Grace Bumbry. Robert De Niro. Bruce Springsteen. Their
stories are their own. But the part that they play in the larger American story -- that's what
we honor here tonight. What they say is that with respect for the past, we can keep strong
the traditions and values that enrich us all; that with confidence in the present, and in
ourselves, we can overcome whatever comes our way; and that with faith in the future,
America's greatest "Glory Days" are still to come.
So thank you to all of our honorees. Thank you all very much for the joy and the beauty that
you've contributed to our lives. We are very grateful. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329509" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Knox_College_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Knox%20College%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at Knox College
Delivered 4 June 2005

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning President Taylor, Board of Trustees, faculty, parents, family, friends, the
community of Galesburg, the class of 1955 -- which I understand was out partying last night,
and yet still showed up here on time -- and most of all, the Class of 2005. Congratulations on
your graduation, and thank you -- thank you for the honor of allowing me to be a part of it.
Thank you also, Mr. President, for this honorary degree. It was only a couple of years ago that
I stopped paying my student loans in law school. Had I known it was this easy, I would have
ran [sic] for the United States Senate earlier.
You know, it has been about six months now since you sent me to Washington as your United
States Senator. I recognize that not all of you voted for me, so for those of you muttering
under your breath "I didn’t send you anywhere," that's ok too. Maybe we’ll hold -- What do
you call it? -- a little Pumphandle after the ceremony. Change your mind for the next time.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It has been a fascinating journey thus far. Each time I walk onto the Senate floor, I'm
reminded of the history, for good and for ill, that has been made there. But there have been a
few surreal moments.
For example, I remember the day before I was sworn in, myself and my staff, we decided to
hold a press conference in our office. Now, keep in mind that I am ranked 99th in seniority. I
was proud that I wasn’t ranked dead last until I found out that it’s just because Illinois is
bigger than Colorado. So I’m 99th in seniority, and all the reporters are crammed into the tiny
transition office that I have, which is right next to the janitor’s closet in the basement of the
Dirksen Office Building. It’s my first day in the building, I have not taken a single vote, I have
not introduced one bill, had not even sat down in my desk, and this very earnest reporter
raises his hand and says:
“Senator Obama, what is your place in history?”
I did what you just did, which is laugh out loud. I said, "place in history?" I thought he was
kidding. At that point, I wasn’t even sure the other Senators would save a place for me at the
cool kids’ table.
But as I was thinking about the words to share with this class, about what’s next, about
what’s possible, and what opportunities lay ahead, I actually think it’s not a bad question for
you, the class of 2005, to ask yourselves: What will be your place in history?
In other eras, across distant lands, this question could be answered with relative ease and
certainty. As a servant in Rome, you knew you’d spend your life forced to build somebody
else’s Empire. As a peasant in 11th Century China, you knew that no matter how hard you
worked, the local warlord might come and take everything you had -- and you also knew that
famine might come knocking at the door. As a subject of King George, you knew that your
freedom of worship and your freedom to speak and to build your own life would be ultimately
limited by the throne.
And then America happened.
A place where destiny was not a destination, but a journey to be shared and shaped and
remade by people who had the gall, the temerity to believe that, against all odds, they could
form “a more perfect union” on this new frontier.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And as people around the world began to hear the tale of the lowly colonists who overthrew
an empire for the sake of an idea, they started to come. Across oceans and the ages, they
settled in Boston and Charleston, Chicago and St. Louis, Kalamazoo and Galesburg, to try and
build their own American Dream. This collective dream moved forward imperfectly -- it was
scarred by our treatment of native peoples, betrayed by slavery, clouded by the subjugation
of women, shaken by war and depression. And yet, brick by brick, rail by rail, calloused hand
by calloused hand, people kept dreaming, and building, and working, and marching, and
petitioning their government, until they made America a land where the question of our place
in history is not answered for us. It’s answered by us.
Have we failed at times? Absolutely. Will you occasionally fail when you embark on your own
American journey? You surely will. But the test is not perfection.
The true test of the American ideal is whether we’re able to recognize our failings and then
rise together to meet the challenges of our time. Whether we allow ourselves to be shaped by
events and history, or whether we act to shape them. Whether chance of birth or
circumstance decides life’s big winners and losers, or whether we build a community where, at
the very least, everyone has a chance to work hard, get ahead, and reach their dreams.
We have faced this choice before.
At the end of the Civil War, when farmers and their families began moving into the cities to
work in the big factories that were sprouting up all across America, we had to decide: Do we
do nothing and allow captains of industry and robber barons to run roughshod over the
economy and workers by competing to see who can pay the lowest wages at the worst
working conditions? Or do we try to make the system work by setting up basic rules for the
market, instituting the first public schools, busting up monopolies, letting workers organize
into unions?
We chose to act, and we rose together.
When the irrational exuberance of the Roaring Twenties came crashing down with the stock
market, we had to decide: do we follow the call of leaders who would do nothing, or the call of
a leader who, perhaps because of his physical paralysis, refused to accept political paralysis?
We chose to act -- regulating the market, putting people back to work, expanding bargaining
rights to include health care and a secure retirement -- and together we rose.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
When World War II required the most massive home front mobilization in history and we
needed every single American to lend a hand, we had to decide: Do we listen to skeptics who
told us it wasn’t possible to produce that many tanks and planes? Or, did we build Roosevelt’s
Arsenal for Democracy and grow our economy even further by providing our returning heroes
with a chance to go to college and own their own home?
Again, we chose to act, and again, we rose together.
Today, at the beginning of this young century, we have to decide again. But this time, it is
your turn to choose.
Here in Galesburg, you know what this new challenge is. You’ve seen it. All of you, your first
year in college saw what happened at 9/11. It’s already been noted, the degree to which your
lives will be intertwined with the war on terrorism that currently is taking place. But what
you’ve also seen, perhaps not as spectacularly, is the fact that when you drive by the old
Maytag plant around lunchtime, no one walks out anymore.
I saw it during the campaign when I met union guys who worked at the plant for 20, 30 years
and now wonder what they’re gonna do at the age of 55 without a pension or health care;
when I met the man who’s son needed a new liver but because he’d been laid off, didn’t know
if he could afford to provide his child the care that he needed.
It’s as if someone changed the rules in the middle of the game and no wonder -- no one
bothered to tell these folks. And, in reality, the rules have changed.
It started with technology and automation that rendered entire occupations obsolete. When
was the last time anybody here stood in line for the bank teller instead of going to the ATM, or
talked to a switchboard operator? Then it continued when companies like Maytag were able to
pick up and move their factories to some under developed country where workers were a lot
cheaper than they are in the United States.
As Tom Friedman points out in his new book, The World Is Flat, over the last decade or so,
these forces -- technology and globalization -- have combined like never before. So that while
most of us have been paying attention to how much easier technology has made our own lives
-- sending e-mails back and forth on our blackberries, surfing the Web on our cell phones,
instant messaging with friends across the world -- a quiet revolution has been breaking down
barriers and connecting the world’s economies. Now business not only has the ability to move
jobs wherever there’s a factory, but wherever there’s an internet connection.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Countries like India and China realized this. They understand that they no longer need to be
just a source of cheap labor or cheap exports. They can compete with us on a global scale.
The one resource they needed were skilled, educated workers. So they started schooling their
kids earlier, longer, with a greater emphasis on math and science and technology, until their
most talented students realized they don’t have to come to America to have a decent life -they can stay right where they are.
The result? China is graduating four times the number of engineers that the United States is
graduating. Not only are those Maytag employees competing with Chinese and Indian and
Indonesian and Mexican workers, you are too. Today, accounting firms are e-mailing your tax
returns to workers in India who will figure them out and send them back to you as fast as any
worker in Illinois or Indiana could.
When you lose your luggage in Boston at an airport, tracking it down may involve a call to an
agent in Bangalore, who will find it by making a phone call to Baltimore. Even the Associated
Press has outsourced some of their jobs to writers all over the world who can send in a story
at a click of a mouse.
As Prime Minister Tony Blair has said, in this new economy, "Talent is the 21st century
wealth." If you've got the skills, you've got the education, and you have the opportunity to
upgrade and improve both, you’ll be able to compete and win anywhere. If not, the fall will be
further and harder than it ever was before.
So what do we do about this? How does America find its way in this new, global
economy? What will our place in history be?
Like so much of the American story, once again, we face a choice. Once again, there are those
who believe that there isn’t much we can do about this as a nation. That the best idea is to
give everyone one big refund on their government -- divvy it up by individual portions, in the
form of tax breaks, hand it out, and encourage everyone to use their share to go buy their
own health care, their own retirement plan, their own child care, their own education, and so
on.
In Washington, they call this the Ownership Society. But in our past there has been another
term for it -- Social Darwinism -- every man or woman for him or herself. It’s a tempting idea,
because it doesn’t require much thought or ingenuity. It allows us to say that those whose
health care or tuition may rise faster than they can afford -- tough luck. It allows us to say to
the Maytag workers who have lost their job -- life isn’t fair. It let’s us say to the child who was

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
born into poverty -- pull yourself up by your bootstraps. And it is especially tempting because
each of us believes we will always be the winner in life’s lottery, that we’re the one who will be
the next Donald Trump, or at least we won’t be the chump who Donald Trump says: “You’re
fired!”
But there is a problem. It won’t work. It ignores our history. It ignores the fact that it’s been
government research and investment that made the railways possible and the internet
possible. It’s been the creation of a massive middle class, through decent wages and benefits
and public schools that allowed us all to prosper. Our economic dependence depended on
individual initiative. It depended on a belief in the free market; but it has also depended on
our sense of mutual regard for each other, the idea that everybody has a stake in the country,
that we’re all in it together and everybody’s got a shot at opportunity. That’s what’s produced
our unrivaled political stability.
And so if we do nothing in the face of globalization, more people will continue to lose their
health care. Fewer kids will be able to afford the diploma you’re about to receive.
More companies like United Airlines won’t be able to provide pensions for their employees.
And those Maytag workers will be joined in the unemployment line by any worker whose skills
can be bought and sold on the global market.
So today I’m here to tell you what most of you already know. This is not us -- the option that
I just mentioned. Doing nothing. It’s not how our story ends -- not in this country. America is
a land of big dreamers and big hopes.
It is this hope that has sustained us through revolution and civil war, depression and world
war, a struggle for civil and social rights and the brink of nuclear crisis. And it is because our
dreamers dreamed that we have emerged from each challenge more united, more prosperous,
and more admired than before.
So let’s dream. Instead of doing nothing or simply defending 20th century solutions, let’s
imagine together what we could do to give every American a fighting chance in the 21st
century.
What if we prepared every child in America with the education and skills they need to compete
in the new economy? If we made sure that college was affordable for everyone who wanted
to go? If we walked up to those Maytag workers and we said “Your old job is not coming back,
but a new job will be there because we’re going to seriously retrain you and there’s life-long

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
education that’s waiting for you -- the sorts of opportunities that Knox has created with the
Strong Futures scholarship program.
What if no matter where you worked or how many times you switched jobs, you had health
care and a pension that stayed with you always, so you all had the flexibility to move to a
better job or start a new business? What if instead of cutting budgets for research and
development and science, we fueled the genius and the innovation that will lead to the new
jobs and new industries of the future?
Right now, all across America, there are amazing discoveries being made. If we supported
these discoveries on a national level, if we committed ourselves to investing in these
possibilities, just imagine what it could do for a town like Galesburg. Ten or twenty years
down the road, that old Maytag plant could re-open its doors as an Ethanol refinery that
turned corn into fuel. Down the street, a biotechnology research lab could open up on the
cusp of discovering a cure for cancer. And across the way, a new auto company could be busy
churning out electric cars. The new jobs created would be filled by American workers trained
with new skills and a world-class education.
All of that is possible but none of it will come easy. Every one of us is going to have to work
more, read more, train more, think more. We will have to slough off some bad habits -- like
driving gas guzzlers that weaken our economy and feed our enemies abroad. Our children will
have to turn off the TV set once in a while and put away the video games and start hitting the
books. We’ll have to reform institutions, like our public schools, that were designed for an
earlier time. Republicans will have to recognize our collective responsibilities, even as
Democrats recognize that we have to do more than just defend old programs.
It won’t be easy, but it can be done. It can be our future. We have the talent and the
resources and brainpower. But now we need the political will. We need a national
commitment.
And we need each of you.
Now, no one can force you to meet these challenges. If you want, it will be pretty easy for you
to leave here today and not give another thought to towns like Galesburg and the challenges
they face. There is no community service requirement in the real world; no one is forcing you
to care.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
You can take your diploma, walk off this stage, and go chasing after the big house, and the
nice suits, and all the other things that our money culture says that you should want, that you
should aspire to, that you can buy.
But I hope you don’t walk away from the challenge. Focusing your life solely on making a buck
shows a certain poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. You need to take up the
challenges that we face as a nation and make them your own. Not because you have a debt to
those who helped you get here, although you do have that debt. Not because you have an
obligation to those who are less fortunate than you, although I do think you do have that
obligation. It’s primarily because you have an obligation to yourself. Because individual
salvation has always depended on collective salvation. Because it’s only when you hitch your
wagon to something larger than yourself that you realize your true potential.
And I know that all of you are wondering how you’ll do this, the challenges seem so big. They
seem so difficult for one person to make a difference.
But we know it can be done. Because where you’re sitting, in this very place, in this town, it’s
happened before.
Nearly two centuries ago, before civil rights, before voting rights, before Abraham Lincoln,
before the Civil War, before all of that, America was stained by the sin of slavery. In the
sweltering heat of southern plantations, men and women who looked like me could not escape
the life of pain and servitude in which they were sold. And yet, year after year, as this moral
cancer ate away at the American ideals of liberty and equality, the nation was silent.
But its people didn’t stay silent for long.
One by one, abolitionists emerged to tell their fellow Americans that this would not be our
place in history -- that this was not the America that had captured the imagination of the
world.
This resistance that they met was fierce, and some paid with their lives. But they would not be
deterred, and they soon spread out across the country to fight for their cause. One man from
New York went west, all the way to the prairies of Illinois to start a colony.
And here in Galesburg, freedom found a home.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Here in Galesburg, the main depot for the Underground Railroad in Illinois, escaped slaves
could roam freely on the streets and take shelter in people’s homes. And when their masters
or the police would come for them, the people of this town would help them escape north,
some literally carrying them in their arms to freedom.
Think about the risks that involved. If they were caught abetting a fugitive, you could’ve been
jailed or lynched. It would have been simple for these townspeople to turn the other way; to
go live their lives in a private peace.
And yet, they didn’t do that. Why?
Because they knew that we were all Americans; that we were all brothers and sisters; the
same reason that a century later, young men and women your age would take Freedom Rides
down south, to work for the Civil Rights movement. The same reason that black women would
walk instead of ride a bus after a long day of doing somebody else’s laundry and cleaning
somebody else’s kitchen. Because they were marching for freedom.
Today, on this day of possibility, we stand in the shadow of a lanky, raw-boned man with little
formal education who once took the stage at Old Main and told the nation that if anyone did
not believe the American principles of freedom and equality, that those principles were
timeless and all-inclusive, they should go rip that page out of the Declaration of
Independence.
My hope for all of you is that as you leave here today, you decide to keep these principles
alive in your own life and in the life of this country. You will be tested. You won’t always
succeed. But know that you have it within your power to try. That generations who have come
before you faced these same fears and uncertainties in their own time. And that through our
collective labor, and through God’s providence, and our willingness to shoulder each other’s
burdens, America will continue on its precious journey towards that distant horizon, and a
better day.
Thank you so much class of 2005, and congratulations on your graduation. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/27/21

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329907" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Libya_Nation_Speech.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Libya%20Nation%20Speech.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Nation on Libya
delivered 28 March 2011, National Defense University, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Tonight, I’d like to update the American people on the international effort that we have led in
Libya: what we’ve done, what we plan to do, and why this matters to us.
I want to begin by paying tribute to our men and women in uniform who, once again, have
acted with courage, professionalism and patriotism. They have moved with incredible speed
and strength. Because of them and our dedicated diplomats, a coalition has been forged and
countless lives have been saved.
Meanwhile, as we speak, our troops are supporting our ally Japan, leaving Iraq to its people,
stopping the Taliban’s momentum in Afghanistan, and going after al Qaeda all across the
globe. As Commander-in-Chief, I’m grateful to our soldiers, sailors, airmen, Marines, Coast
Guardsmen, and to their families. And I know all Americans share in that sentiment.
For generations, the United States of America has played a unique role as an anchor of global
security and as an advocate for human freedom. Mindful of the risks and costs of military
action, we are naturally reluctant to use force to solve the world’s many challenges. But when
our interests and values are at stake, we have a responsibility to act. That’s what happened
in Libya over the course of these last six weeks.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Libya sits directly between Tunisia and Egypt -- two nations that inspired the world when their
people rose up to take control of their own destiny. For more than four decades, the Libyan
people have been ruled by a tyrant -- Muammar Qaddafi. He has denied his people freedom,
exploited their wealth, murdered opponents at home and abroad, and terrorized innocent
people around the world -- including Americans who were killed by Libyan agents.
Last month, Qaddafi’s grip of fear appeared to give way to the promise of freedom. In cities
and towns across the country, Libyans took to the streets to claim their basic human rights.
As one Libyan said, “For the first time we finally have hope that our nightmare of 40 years will
soon be over.”
Faced with this opposition, Qaddafi began attacking his people. As President, my immediate
concern was the safety of our citizens, so we evacuated our embassy and all Americans who
sought our assistance. Then we took a series of swift steps in a matter of days to answer
Qaddafi’s aggression. We froze more than $33 billion of Qaddafi’s regime’s assets. Joining
with other nations at the United Nations Security Council, we broadened our sanctions,
imposed an arms embargo, and enabled Qaddafi and those around him to be held accountable
for their crimes. I made it clear that Qaddafi had lost the confidence of his people and the
legitimacy to lead, and I said that he needed to step down from power.
In the face of the world’s condemnation, Qaddafi chose to escalate his attacks, launching a
military campaign against the Libyan people. Innocent people were targeted for killing.
Hospitals and ambulances were attacked. Journalists were arrested, sexually assaulted, and
killed. Supplies of food and fuel were choked off. Water for hundreds of thousands of people
in Misurata was shut off. Cities and towns were shelled, mosques were destroyed, and
apartment buildings reduced to rubble. Military jets and helicopter gunships were unleashed
upon people who had no means to defend themselves against assaults from the air.
Confronted by this brutal repression and a looming humanitarian crisis, I ordered warships
into the Mediterranean. European allies declared their willingness to commit resources to stop
the killing. The Libyan opposition and the Arab League appealed to the world to save lives in
Libya. And so at my direction, America led an effort with our allies at the United Nations
Security Council to pass a historic resolution that authorized a no-fly zone to stop the regime’s
attacks from the air, and further authorized all necessary measures to protect the Libyan
people.
Ten days ago, having tried to end the violence without using force, the international
community offered Qaddafi a final chance to stop his campaign of killing, or face the
consequences. Rather than stand down, his forces continued their advance, bearing down on
the city of Benghazi, home to nearly 700,000 men, women and children who sought their
freedom from fear.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
At this point, the United States and the world faced a choice. Qaddafi declared he would show
“no mercy” to his own people. He compared them to rats, and threatened to go door to door
to inflict punishment. In the past, we have seen him hang civilians in the streets, and kill over
a thousand people in a single day. Now we saw regime forces on the outskirts of the city. We
knew that if we wanted -- if we waited one more day, Benghazi, a city nearly the size of
Charlotte, could suffer a massacre that would have reverberated across the region and stained
the conscience of the world.
It was not in our national interest to let that happen. I refused to let that happen. And so
nine days ago, after consulting the bipartisan leadership of Congress, I authorized military
action to stop the killing and enforce U.N. Security Council Resolution 1973.
We struck regime forces approaching Benghazi to save that city and the people within it. We
hit Qaddafi’s troops in neighboring Ajdabiya, allowing the opposition to drive them out. We hit
Qaddafi’s air defenses, which paved the way for a no-fly zone. We targeted tanks and military
assets that had been choking off towns and cities, and we cut off much of their source of
supply. And tonight, I can report that we have stopped Qaddafi’s deadly advance.
In this effort, the United States has not acted alone. Instead, we have been joined by a strong
and growing coalition. This includes our closest allies -- nations like the United Kingdom,
France, Canada, Denmark, Norway, Italy, Spain, Greece, and Turkey -- all of whom have
fought by our sides for decades. And it includes Arab partners like Qatar and the United Arab
Emirates, who have chosen to meet their responsibilities to defend the Libyan people.
To summarize, then: In just one month, the United States has worked with our international
partners to mobilize a broad coalition, secure an international mandate to protect civilians,
stop an advancing army, prevent a massacre, and establish a no-fly zone with our allies and
partners. To lend some perspective on how rapidly this military and diplomatic response
came together, when people were being brutalized in Bosnia in the 1990s, it took the
international community more than a year to intervene with air power to protect civilians. It
took us 31 days.
Moreover, we’ve accomplished these objectives consistent with the pledge that I made to the
American people at the outset of our military operations. I said that America’s role would be
limited; that we would not put ground troops into Libya; that we would focus our unique
capabilities on the front end of the operation and that we would transfer responsibility to our
allies and partners. Tonight, we are fulfilling that pledge.
Our most effective alliance, NATO, has taken command of the enforcement of the arms
embargo and the no-fly zone. Last night, NATO decided to take on the additional
responsibility of protecting Libyan civilians. This transfer from the United States to NATO will
take place on Wednesday. Going forward, the lead in enforcing the no-fly zone and protecting
civilians on the ground will transition to our allies and partners, and I am fully confident that
our coalition will keep the pressure on Qaddafi’s remaining forces.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
In that effort, the United States will play a supporting role -- including intelligence, logistical
support, search and rescue assistance, and capabilities to jam regime communications.
Because of this transition to a broader, NATO-based coalition, the risk and cost of this
operation -- to our military and to American taxpayers -- will be reduced significantly.
So for those who doubted our capacity to carry out this operation, I want to be clear: The
United States of America has done what we said we would do.
That’s not to say that our work is complete. In addition to our NATO responsibilities, we will
work with the international community to provide assistance to the people of Libya, who need
food for the hungry and medical care for the wounded. We will safeguard the more than $33
billion that was frozen from the Qaddafi regime so that it’s available to rebuild Libya. After all,
the money doesn’t belong to Qaddafi or to us -- it belongs to the Libyan people. And we’ll
make sure they receive it.
Tomorrow, Secretary Clinton will go to London, where she will meet with the Libyan opposition
and consult with more than 30 nations. These discussions will focus on what kind of political
effort is necessary to pressure Qaddafi, while also supporting a transition to the future that
the Libyan people deserve -- because while our military mission is narrowly focused on saving
lives, we continue to pursue the broader goal of a Libya that belongs not to a dictator, but to
its people.
Now, despite the success of our efforts over the past week, I know that some Americans
continue to have questions about our efforts in Libya. Qaddafi has not yet stepped down from
power, and until he does, Libya will remain dangerous. Moreover, even after Qaddafi does
leave power, 40 years of tyranny has left Libya fractured and without strong civil institutions.
The transition to a legitimate government that is responsive to the Libyan people will be a
difficult task. And while the United States will do our part to help, it will be a task for the
international community and -- more importantly -- a task for the Libyan people themselves.
In fact, much of the debate in Washington has put forward a false choice when it comes to
Libya. On the one hand, some question why America should intervene at all -- even in limited
ways -- in this distant land. They argue that there are many places in the world where
innocent civilians face brutal violence at the hands of their government, and America should
not be expected to police the world, particularly when we have so many pressing needs here
at home.
It’s true that America cannot use our military wherever repression occurs. And given the
costs and risks of intervention, we must always measure our interests against the need for
action. But that cannot be an argument for never acting on behalf of what’s right. In this
particular country -- Libya -- at this particular moment, we were faced with the prospect of
violence on a horrific scale.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We had a unique ability to stop that violence: an international mandate for action, a broad
coalition prepared to join us, the support of Arab countries, and a plea for help from the
Libyan people themselves. We also had the ability to stop Qaddafi’s forces in their tracks
without putting American troops on the ground.
To brush aside America’s responsibility as a leader and -- more profoundly -- our
responsibilities to our fellow human beings under such circumstances would have been a
betrayal of who we are. Some nations may be able to turn a blind eye to atrocities in other
countries. The United States of America is different. And as President, I refused to wait for
the images of slaughter and mass graves before taking action.
Moreover, America has an important strategic interest in preventing Qaddafi from overrunning
those who oppose him. A massacre would have driven thousands of additional refugees
across Libya’s borders, putting enormous strains on the peaceful -- yet fragile -- transitions in
Egypt and Tunisia. The democratic impulses that are dawning across the region would be
eclipsed by the darkest form of dictatorship, as repressive leaders concluded that violence is
the best strategy to cling to power. The writ of the United Nations Security Council would
have been shown to be little more than empty words, crippling that institution’s future
credibility to uphold global peace and security. So while I will never minimize the costs
involved in military action, I am convinced that a failure to act in Libya would have carried a
far greater price for America.
Now, just as there are those who have argued against intervention in Libya, there are others
who have suggested that we broaden our military mission beyond the task of protecting the
Libyan people, and do whatever it takes to bring down Qaddafi and usher in a new
government.
Of course, there is no question that Libya -- and the world -- would be better off with Qaddafi
out of power. I, along with many other world leaders, have embraced that goal, and will
actively pursue it through non-military means. But broadening our military mission to include
regime change would be a mistake.
The task that I assigned our forces -- to protect the Libyan people from immediate danger,
and to establish a no-fly zone -- carries with it a U.N. mandate and international support. It’s
also what the Libyan opposition asked us to do. If we tried to overthrow Qaddafi by force, our
coalition would splinter. We would likely have to put U.S. troops on the ground to accomplish
that mission, or risk killing many civilians from the air. The dangers faced by our men and
women in uniform would be far greater. So would the costs and our share of the
responsibility for what comes next.
To be blunt, we went down that road in Iraq. Thanks to the extraordinary sacrifices of our
troops and the determination of our diplomats, we are hopeful about Iraq’s future. But
regime change there took eight years, thousands of American and Iraqi lives, and nearly a
trillion dollars. That is not something we can afford to repeat in Libya.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
As the bulk of our military effort ratchets down, what we can do -- and will do -- is support
the aspirations of the Libyan people. We have intervened to stop a massacre, and we will
work with our allies and partners to maintain the safety of civilians. We will deny the regime
arms, cut off its supplies of cash, assist the opposition, and work with other nations to hasten
the day when Qaddafi leaves power. It may not happen overnight, as a badly weakened
Qaddafi tries desperately to hang on to power. But it should be clear to those around Qaddafi,
and to every Libyan, that history is not on Qaddafi’s side. With the time and space that we
have provided for the Libyan people, they will be able to determine their own destiny, and
that is how it should be.
Let me close by addressing what this action says about the use of America’s military power,
and America’s broader leadership in the world, under my presidency.
As Commander-in-Chief, I have no greater responsibility than keeping this country safe. And
no decision weighs on me more than when to deploy our men and women in uniform. I’ve
made it clear that I will never hesitate to use our military swiftly, decisively, and unilaterally
when necessary to defend our people, our homeland, our allies and our core interests. That's
why we’re going after al Qaeda wherever they seek a foothold. That is why we continue to
fight in Afghanistan, even as we have ended our combat mission in Iraq and removed more
than 100,000 troops from that country.
There will be times, though, when our safety is not directly threatened, but our interests and
our values are. Sometimes, the course of history poses challenges that threaten our common
humanity and our common security -- responding to natural disasters, for example; or
preventing genocide and keeping the peace; ensuring regional security, and maintaining the
flow of commerce. These may not be America’s problems alone, but they are important to
us. They’re problems worth solving. And in these circumstances, we know that the United
States, as the world’s most powerful nation, will often be called upon to help.
In such cases, we should not be afraid to act -- but the burden of action should not be
America’s alone. As we have in Libya, our task is instead to mobilize the international
community for collective action. Because contrary to the claims of some, American leadership
is not simply a matter of going it alone and bearing all of the burden ourselves. Real
leadership creates the conditions and coalitions for others to step up as well; to work with
allies and partners so that they bear their share of the burden and pay their share of the
costs; and to see that the principles of justice and human dignity are upheld by all.
That’s the kind of leadership we’ve shown in Libya. Of course, even when we act as part of a
coalition, the risks of any military action will be high. Those risks were realized when one of
our planes malfunctioned over Libya. Yet when one of our airmen parachuted to the ground,
in a country whose leader has so often demonized the United States -- in a region that has
such a difficult history with our country -- this American did not find enemies. Instead, he
was met by people who embraced him. One young Libyan who came to his aid said, “We are
your friends. We are so grateful to those men who are protecting the skies.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
This voice is just one of many in a region where a new generation is refusing to be denied
their rights and opportunities any longer.
Yes, this change will make the world more complicated for a time. Progress will be uneven,
and change will come differently to different countries. There are places, like Egypt, where
this change will inspire us and raise our hopes. And then there will be places, like Iran, where
change is fiercely suppressed. The dark forces of civil conflict and sectarian war will have to
be averted, and difficult political and economic concerns will have to be addressed.
The United States will not be able to dictate the pace and scope of this change. Only the
people of the region can do that. But we can make a difference.
I believe that this movement of change cannot be turned back, and that we must stand
alongside those who believe in the same core principles that have guided us through many
storms: our opposition to violence directed at one’s own people; our support for a set of
universal rights, including the freedom for people to express themselves and choose their
leaders; our support for governments that are ultimately responsive to the aspirations of the
people.
Born, as we are, out of a revolution by those who longed to be free, we welcome the fact that
history is on the move in the Middle East and North Africa, and that young people are leading
the way. Because wherever people long to be free, they will find a friend in the United
States. Ultimately, it is that faith -- those ideals -- that are the true measure of American
leadership.
My fellow Americans, I know that at a time of upheaval overseas -- when the news is filled
with conflict and change -- it can be tempting to turn away from the world. And as I’ve said
before, our strength abroad is anchored in our strength here at home. That must always be
our North Star -- the ability of our people to reach their potential, to make wise choices with
our resources, to enlarge the prosperity that serves as a wellspring for our power, and to live
the values that we hold so dear.
But let us also remember that for generations, we have done the hard work of protecting our
own people, as well as millions around the globe. We have done so because we know that our
own future is safer, our own future is brighter, if more of mankind can live with the bright
light of freedom and dignity.
Tonight, let us give thanks for the Americans who are serving through these trying times, and
the coalition that is carrying our effort forward. And let us look to the future with confidence
and hope not only for our own country, but for all those yearning for freedom around the
world.
Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329893" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Libya_Violence_Must_Stop.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Libya%20Violence%20Must%20Stop.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on Libya: The Violence Must Stop
delivered 23 February 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. Secretary Clinton and I just concluded a meeting that focused on
the ongoing situation in Libya. Over the last few days, my national security team has been
working around the clock to monitor the situation there and to coordinate with our
international partners about a way forward.
First, we are doing everything we can to protect American citizens. That is my highest
priority. In Libya, we've urged our people to leave the country and the State Department is
assisting those in need of support. Meanwhile, I think all Americans should give thanks to the
heroic work that's being done by our foreign service officers and the men and women serving
in our embassies and consulates around the world. They represent the very best of our
country and its values.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 2/8/24

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, throughout this period of unrest and upheaval across the region the United States has
maintained a set of core principles which guide our approach. These principles apply to the
situation in Libya. As I said last week, we strongly condemn the use of violence in Libya.
The American people extend our deepest condolences to the families and loved ones of all
who’ve been killed and injured. The suffering and bloodshed is outrageous and it is
unacceptable. So are threats and orders to shoot peaceful protesters and further punish the
people of Libya. These actions violate international norms and every standard of common
decency. This violence must stop.
The United States also strongly supports the universal rights of the Libyan people. That
includes the rights of peaceful assembly, free speech, and the ability of the Libyan people to
determine their own destiny. These are human rights. They are not negotiable. They must
be respected in every country. And they cannot be denied through violence or suppression.
In a volatile situation like this one, it is imperative that the nations and peoples of the world
speak with one voice, and that has been our focus. Yesterday a unanimous U.N. Security
Council sent a clear message that it condemns the violence in Libya, supports accountability
for the perpetrators, and stands with the Libyan people.
This same message, by the way, has been delivered by the European Union, the Arab League,
the African Union, the Organization of the Islamic Conference, and many individual nations.
North and south, east and west, voices are being raised together to oppose suppression and
support the rights of the Libyan people.
I’ve also asked my administration to prepare the full range of options that we have to respond
to this crisis. This includes those actions we may take and those we will coordinate with our
allies and partners, or those that we’ll carry out through multilateral institutions.
Like all governments, the Libyan government has a responsibility to refrain from violence, to
allow humanitarian assistance to reach those in need, and to respect the rights of its people.
It must be held accountable for its failure to meet those responsibilities, and face the cost of
continued violations of human rights.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 2/8/24

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is not simply a concern of the United States. The entire world is watching, and we will
coordinate our assistance and accountability measures with the international community. To
that end, Secretary Clinton and I have asked Bill Burns, our Under Secretary of State for
Political Affairs, to make several stops in Europe and the region to intensify our consultations
with allies and partners about the situation in Libya.
I’ve also asked Secretary Clinton to travel to Geneva on Monday, where a number of foreign
ministers will convene for a session of the Human Rights Council. There she’ll hold
consultations with her counterparts on events throughout the region and continue to ensure
that we join with the international community to speak with one voice to the government and
the people of Libya.
And even as we are focused on the urgent situation in Libya, let me just say that our efforts
continue to address the events taking place elsewhere, including how the international
community can most effectively support the peaceful transition to democracy in both Tunisia
and in Egypt.
So let me be clear. The change that is taking place across the region is being driven by the
people of the region. This change doesn’t represent the work of the United States or any
foreign power. It represents the aspirations of people who are seeking a better life. As one
Libyan said, “We just want to be able to live like human beings.” We just want to be able to
live like human beings. It is the most basic of aspirations that is driving this change. And
throughout this time of transition, the United States will continue to stand up for freedom,
stand up for justice, and stand up for the dignity of all people.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 2/8/24

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329624" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Lincoln_Bicentennial.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Lincoln%20Bicentennial.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Abraham Lincoln Washington, D.C. Bicentennial Address

Delivered 12 February 2009, Lincoln Memorial, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Please, be seated. Thank you, very much.
Madam Speaker, Leader Reid, members of Congress, dear friends, former colleagues:
It is a great honor to be here -- a place where Lincoln served, was inaugurated, and where the
nation he saved bid him a last farewell. As we mark the bicentennial of our 16th President's
birth, I cannot claim to know as much about his life and works as many who are also speaking
today, but I can say that I feel a special gratitude to this singular figure who in so many ways
made my own story possible -- and in so many ways made America's story possible.
It is fitting that we are holding this celebration here at the Capitol, for the life of this building
is bound ever so closely to the times of this immortal President. Built by artisans and
craftsmen, but also immigrants and slaves, it was here, in the rotunda, that Union soldiers
received help from a makeshift hospital; it was downstairs, in the basement, that they were
baked bread to give them strength; and it was in the Senate and House chambers where they
slept at night and spent some of their days.
What those soldiers saw when they looked on this building was a very different sight than the
one we see today, for it remained unfinished until the end of the war. The laborers who built
the dome came to work wondering each day whether that would be their last; whether the
metal they were using for its frame would be requisitioned for the war and melted down into
bullets. But each day went by without any orders to halt construction, and so they kept on
working, and kept on building.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And when President Lincoln was finally told of all the metal being used here, his response was
short and clear: That is as it should be. The American people needed to be reminded, he
believed, that even in a time of war, the work would go on; the people's business would
continue; that even when the nation itself was in doubt, its future was being secured; and
that on that distant day, when the guns fell silent, a national capitol would stand, with a
statue of freedom at its peak, as a symbol of unity in a land still mending its divisions.
It is this sense of unity, this ability to plan for a shared future even at a moment where our
nation was torn apart, that I reflect on today. And while there are any number of moments
that reveal that particular side of this extraordinary man, Abraham Lincoln -- that particular
aspect of his leadership -- there's one that I'd like to share with you today.
In the war's final weeks, aboard Grant's flagship, The River Queen, President Lincoln was
asked what was to be done with the rebel armies once General Lee surrendered. With victory
at hand, Lincoln could have sought revenge. He could have forced the South to pay a steep
price for their rebellion. But despite all the bloodshed and all the misery that each side had
exacted upon the other, and despite his absolute certainty in the rightness of the cause of
ending slavery, no Confederate soldier was to be punished, Lincoln ordered. They were to be
treated, as he put it, "liberally all round." What Lincoln wanted was for Confederate troops to
go back home and return to work on their farms and in their shops. He was even willing, he
said, to "let them have their horses to plow and their guns to shoot crows with."
That was the only way, Lincoln knew, to repair the rifts that had torn this country apart. It
was the only way to begin the healing that our nation so desperately needed. What Lincoln
never forgot, not even in the midst of civil war, was that despite all that divides us -- north
and south, black and white -- we were, at heart, one nation and one people, sharing a bond
as Americans that could bend but would not break.
And so even as we meet here today, in a moment when we are far less divided than in
Lincoln's day, but when we are once again debating the critical issues of our time -- and
debating them sometimes fiercely -- let us remember that we are doing so as servants of the
same flag, as representatives of the same people, and as stakeholders in a common future.
That is the most fitting tribute we can pay -- the most lasting monument we can build -- to
that most remarkable of men, Abraham Lincoln.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329610" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Lincoln_Memorial.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Lincoln%20Memorial.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Pre­Inauguration Address at the Lincoln Memorial

Delivered 18 January 2008, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello America!
I want to thank all the speakers and performers today for reminding us, through song and
through words, just what it is that we love about America. I want to thank all of you for
braving the cold and the crowds and traveling in some cases thousands of miles to join us
here today. Welcome to Washington, and welcome to this celebration of American renewal.
In the course of our history, only a handful of generations have been asked to confront
challenges as serious as the ones we face right now. Our nation is at war. Our economy is in
crisis. Millions of Americans are losing their jobs and their homes. They're worried about how
they'll afford college for their kids or pay the stack of bills on their kitchen table. And most of
all, they're anxious and uncertain about the future ­­ about whether this generation of
Americans will be able to pass on what's best about this country to our children and their
children.
I won't pretend that meeting any one of these challenges will be easy. It will take more than a
month or a year, and it will likely take many. Along the way there will be setbacks and false
starts and days that test our resolve as a nation.
But despite all this ­­ despite the enormity of the task that lies ahead ­­ I stand here today as
hopeful as ever that the United States of America will endure, that it will prevail, that the
dream of our Founders will live on in our time.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
What gives me hope is what I see when I look out across this mall. For in these monuments
are chiseled those unlikely stories that affirm our unyielding faith ­­ a faith that anything is
possible in America. Rising before us stands a memorial to a man who led a small band of
farmers and shopkeepers in revolution against the army of an empire, all for the sake of an
idea.
On the ground below is a tribute to a generation that withstood war and depression ­­ men
and women like my grandparents who toiled on bomber assembly lines and marched across
Europe to free the world from tyranny's grasp. Directly in front of us is a pool that still reflects
the dream of a King, and the glory of a people who marched and bled so that their children
might be judged by their character's content. And behind me, watching over the union he
saved, sits the man who in so many ways made this day possible.
And yet, as I stand here today, what gives me the greatest hope of all is not the stone and
marble that surrounds us, but what fills the spaces in between. It is you ­­ Americans of every
race and region and station who came here because you believe in what this country can be
and because you want to help us get there.
It's the same thing that gave me hope from the day we began this campaign for the
presidency nearly two years ago: a belief that if we could just recognize ourselves in one
another and bring everyone together ­­ Democrats, Republicans, Independents; Latino, Asian
and Native American; black and white, gay and straight, disabled and then not only would we
restore hope and opportunity in places that yearned for both, but maybe, just maybe, we
might perfect our union in the process.
This is what I believed, but you made this belief real. You proved once more that people who
love this country can change it. And as I prepare to assume the presidency, yours are the
voices I will take with me every day when I walk into that Oval Office ­­ the voices of men and
women who have different stories but hold common hopes; who ask only for what was
promised us as Americans ­­ that we might make of our lives what we will and see our
children climb higher than we did.
It is this thread that binds us together in common effort; that runs through every memorial on
this mall; that connects us to all those who struggled and sacrificed and stood here before. It
is how this nation has overcome the greatest differences and the longest odds ­­ because
there is no obstacle that can stand in the way of millions of voices calling for change. That is
the belief with which we began this campaign, and that is how we will overcome what ails us
now.
There is no doubt that our road will be long, that our climb will be steep. But never forget that
the true character of our nation is revealed not during times of comfort and ease, but by the
right we do when the moment is hard. I ask you to help reveal that character once more, and
together, we can carry forward as one nation, and one people, the legacy of our forefathers
that we celebrate today.
Thank you, America. God bless you.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329757" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Lorain_County_Community_College.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Lorain%20County%20Community%20College.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Town Hall Address at Lorain County Community College
delivered 22 January 2010, Elyria, Ohio

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, everybody! Hello, Ohio! Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you. Everybody, please relax. We're
going to be here for a little bit. Everybody take a seat -- if you have a seat. It is great to see you -- can
everybody please give Jody a big round of applause for the introduction.
Everybody is a special guest, but we've got a few that I just want to mention. First of all, obviously you've got
one of the finest governors in the country in Ted Strickland. Please give him a round of applause. My former
colleague when he was in the Senate -- nobody fights harder for working people than Sherrod Brown. Give
him a big round of applause.
We've got a dynamo pair of members of the House of Representatives, who are so committed to their
districts and committed to this state -- Betty Sutton and Marcy Kaptur. I have been having just a wonderful
time here in town, and your mayor has just been a really nice person. He and I shared a burger over at
Smitty's. Give Bill Grace a big round of applause.
And somebody who I'm hugely impressed with because I'm just so impressed with this institution, and his
leadership obviously has been critical to it -- Dr. Ray Church, your school president here at Lorain County
Community College.
Well, listen, it is great to be here in Elyria. Thank you so much for the great hospitality, the wonderful
reception. Look, it's just nice being out of Washington, let me say. I mean, there are some nice people in
Washington, but it can drive you crazy. Am I wrong, Sherrod?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
For two years, I had the privilege of traveling across this country, and I had a chance to talk to people like
you, and go to diners and sit in barbershops, and hear directly about the challenges that all of you are facing
in your lives, and the opportunities that you're taking advantage of, and all the things that we face together
as a nation. And the single hardest thing -- people ask me this all the time -- the single hardest thing about
being President is that it's harder for me to do that nowadays. It's harder to get out of the bubble.
I mean, don't get me wrong, the White House is a wonderful place to work. You live above the store, which
means I've got a very short commute. I'm having -- I see my daughters before they go to school and I see
them at night for dinner, even if I have to go back down to the office. And that makes everything so much
better. But the truth is, this job is a little confining, and that is frustrating. I can't just go to the barbershop or
sit in a diner. I can't always visit people directly.
This is part of the reason why I've taken to the practice of reading 10 letters, out of the 40,000 that I get,
every night just so that I can stay in touch and hear from you. But nothing beats a day where I can make an
escape, I break out. And so I appreciate the chance to come here and spend a day.
Before I came here I visited the EMC Precision Machining plant. I saw the great clean energy job training
program here at Lorain County Community College. And I'm obviously thrilled to be able to spend some
time with you.
Audience: We love you!
Obama: I love you back. Thank you.
Now, look, let's be honest. These are difficult and unsettling times. They're difficult times here in Elyria;
they're tough in Ohio; they're tough all across the country. I walked into office a year ago in the middle of a
raging economic storm that was wreaking devastation on your town and communities everywhere. We had
to take some very difficult steps to deal with that mess, to stave off an even greater economic catastrophe.
We had to stabilize the financial system, which, given the role of the big banks in creating this mess, was a
pretty tough pill to swallow.
I knew it would be unpopular -- and rightly so. But I also knew that we had to do it because if they went
down, your local banks would have gone down. And if the financial system went down, it would have taken
the entire economy and millions more families and businesses with it. We would have looked -- we would
have been looking at a second Great Depression.
So in my first months in office, we also had to save two of the big three automakers from a liquidation
bankruptcy, complete collapse. Some people weren't happy about that, either. I understand that. They felt
like if you're in a business, you make a bad decision, you ought to reap the consequences, just like any
business would. The problem was, if we let GM and Chrysler simply go under, hundreds of thousands of
Americans would have been hurt, not just at those companies themselves, but at auto suppliers and other
companies and dealers here in Michigan, up in -- here in Ohio, up in Michigan, all across this country.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we said, if you're willing to take some tough and painful steps to make yourself more competitive, we're
willing to invest in your future. And earlier this week, we heard that the auto industry planned to make almost
3 million cars and trucks here in North America in the next three months, which is up 69 percent from the
first three months of last year.
We also passed a Recovery Act to pull our economy back from the brink. Now, there's been a lot of
misunderstanding about this Recovery Act. Sherrod and Marcy and Betty and I were talking about this on
the way over here. If you ask the average person, what was the Recovery Act, the stimulus package, they'd
say, "the bank bailout." So let me just be clear here: The Recovery Act was cutting taxes for 95 percent of
working families -- 15 different tax cuts for working families, seven different tax cuts for small businesses so
they can start up and grow and hire. The Recovery Act was extending and increasing unemployment
insurance and making COBRA available at a cheaper rate for people who had lost their jobs so they could
keep their health care.
We gave aid directly to states to help them through tough times. Ted can testify the help that it provided to
the Ohio budget so we wouldn't have to lay off teachers and firefighters and police officers all across this
state. And we made the largest investment in infrastructure since the creation of the Interstate Highway
System, putting Americans to work rebuilding our roads, bridges, waterways -- doing the work that America
needs to be done.
Now, today, because we took those actions, the worst of this economic storm has passed. But families like
yours and communities like this one are still reeling from the devastation it left in its wake. At one of the
companies, at EMC, where I went today -- wonderful company, passed on through generations -- they have
hung on with their precision manufacturing, high value added. They can do things that can't be shipped off
to China because they're so attuned to their customers' needs. But they had 77 employees; now they've got
44. They want to start hiring back, but it's going to take a little time. The good news is they're starting to see
orders pick up just a little bit.
But it's tough. Folks have seen jobs you thought would last forever disappear. You've seen plants close and
businesses shut down. I've heard about how the city government here is starting to cut into bone, not just
fat. You can't get to work or go buy groceries like you used to because of cuts in the county transit system.
And this all comes after one of the toughest decades our middle class has faced in generations. I mean,
think about what's happened over the last 10 years, even before the crisis hit. This is a decade where some
folks made tons of money, but so many others were just pedaling faster and faster, but they were stuck in
the same place, sometimes slipping behind. The average wage, the average income over the last decade
actually flat-lined; in some cases went down. That was before the crisis.
So, for many of you, even as you found your paychecks shrinking, even as after the crisis you found the
value of your biggest asset, your home, falling, the cost of everything else has gone up: the cost of
groceries, the cost of sending your kids to college, costs of retirement. And you've also faced the breakneck,
unrelenting climb of costs for your health care needs.
Now, here's the message I want you to take away -- and we're going to have a lot of time for questions, but I
want to make this absolutely clear. I did not run for President to turn away from these challenges. I didn't run
to kick these challenges down the road. I ran for President to confront them -- once and for all.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I ran for this office to rebuild our economy so it works not just for the fortunate few, but for everybody who's
willing to work hard in this country to create good jobs that can support a family; to get wages growing and
incomes rising; to improve the quality of America's schools and lift up great community colleges like this one
so that people are constantly learning, constantly retraining for the jobs of the 21st century; to make higher
education affordable for the children of working families -- and, yes, to deal with the problem of runaway
health insurance costs that are breaking family budgets and breaking business budgets and breaking our
national budgets.
Now, since this has been in the news a little bit this week, let me say a little something about health care. I
had no illusions when I took this on that this was going to be hard. Seven Presidents had tried it, seven
Congresses had tried it -- and all of them had failed.
And I had a whole bunch of political advisors telling me this may not be the smartest thing to do. "You've got
a lot on your plate: the biggest economic crisis since the Great Depression; two wars. You may not get a lot
of cooperation. you're going to have a lot of pushback from the insurance companies and the drug
companies. It's complicated. Don't do it."
Now, let me tell you why I did it. I knew that insurance premiums had more than doubled in the past decade.
I knew that out-of-pocket expenses had skyrocketed. I knew that millions more people had lost their
insurance, and I knew that because of that economic crisis that was only going to get worse. When you lose
7 million jobs, like we lost over the last two years, what do you think happens to those folks' health
insurance? What happens when their COBRA runs out?
I took this up because I wanted to ease the burdens on all the families and small businesses that can't
afford to pay outrageous rates. And I wanted to protect mothers and fathers and children by being targeted
by some of the worst practices of the insurance industry that I had heard time and time again as I traveled
through this country.
Now, let me dispel this notion that somehow we were focused on that, and so, as a consequence, not
focused on the economy. First of all, all I think about is how we're going to create jobs in this area. All I think
about is how do we get banks lending again. I've been doing that the entire year. So have folks like Sherrod
and Marcy and Betty. But what I also know is, is that health care is part of the drag on our economy. It's part
of the eroding security that middle-class families feel.
So here's the good news: We've gotten pretty far down the road. But I've got to admit, we had a little bit of a
buzz saw this week.
Now, I also know that part of the reason is, is that this process was so long and so drawn out -- this is just
what happens in Congress. I mean, it's just an ugly process. You're running headlong into special interests,
and armies of lobbyists, and partisan politics that's aimed at exploiting fears instead of getting things done.
And then you've got ads that are scaring the bejesus out of everybody. And the longer it take, the uglier it
looks.
So I understand why people would say, boy, this is -- I'm not so sure about this -- even though they know
that what they got isn't working. And I understand why, after the Massachusetts election, people in
Washington were all in a tizzy, trying to figure out what this means for health reform, Republicans and

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Democrats; what does it mean for Obama? Is he weakened? Is he -- oh, how's he going to survive this?
That's what they do.
But I want you -- I want you to understand, this is not about me. This is not about me. This is about you. This
is not about me; this is about you. I didn't take this up to boost my poll numbers. You know the way to boost
your poll numbers is not do anything. That's how you do it. You don't offend anybody. I'd have real high poll
numbers. All of Washington would be saying, "What a genius!"
I didn't take this on to score political points. I know there are some folks who think if Obama loses, we win.
But you know what? I think that I win when you win. That's how I think about it.
So if I was trying to take the path of least resistance, I would have done something a lot easier. But I'm
trying to solve the problems that folks here in Ohio and across this country face every day. And I'm not
going to walk away just because it's hard. We are going to keep on working to get this done -- with
Democrats, I hope with Republicans -- anybody who's willing to step up. Because I'm not going to watch
more people get crushed by costs or denied care they need by insurance company bureaucrats. I'm not
going to have insurance companies click their heels and watch their stocks skyrocket because once again
there's no control on what they do.
So long as I have some breath in me, so long as I have the privilege of serving as your President, I will not
stop fighting for you. I will take my lumps, but I won't stop fighting to bring back jobs here. I won't stop
fighting for an economy where hard work is rewarded. I won't stop fighting to make sure there's
accountability in our financial system.I'm not going to stop fighting until we have jobs for everybody.
That's why I'm calling on Congress to pass a jobs bill to put more Americans to work building off our
Recovery Act; put more Americans back to work rebuilding roads and railways; provide tax breaks to small
businesses for hiring people; offer families incentives to make their homes more energy-efficient, saving
them money while creating jobs.
That's why we enacted initiatives that are beginning to give rise to a clean energy economy. That's part of
what's going on in this community college. If we hadn't done anything with the Recovery Act, talk to the
people who are building wind turbines and solar panels. They would have told you their industry was about
to collapse because credit had completely frozen. And now you're seeing all across Ohio some of the -- this
state has received more funds than just about anybody in order to build on that clean energy economy -new cutting-edge wind turbines and batteries that are going to be going into energy-efficient cars.
Almost $25 million of our investment went to a plant right here in Elyria that's helping produce the car
batteries of the future. That's what we're going to keep on doing for the rest of 2010 and 2011 and 2012,
until we've got this country working again.
So long as I'm President, I'll never stop fighting for policies that will help restore home values, to redeem the
investment that folks have made. We've seen some of those values return in some places, in some pockets,
but it's still tough out there. We're going to have to do more this year to make sure that banks are
responsive to folks who are working hard, have been paying their mortgage, but have found themselves in a
tough situation.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I'm not going to stop fighting to give our kids the best education possible to take the tens of billions of dollars
we pay banks to act as middlemen on student loans and invest that money in students who actually need it.
We don't need the middlemen -- cut them out.
I won't stop fighting to give every American a fair shake. That's why the very first bill I signed into law was
the Lilly Ledbetter Act to uphold the principle of equal pay for equal work for men and women alike,
especially when families need two paychecks to survive.
So long as I'm President, I won't stop fighting to protect you from the kinds of deceptive practices we've
seen from some in the financial sector. That's why I signed a Credit Card Bill of Rights into law, to protect
you from surprise charges and retroactive rate hikes and other unfair rules. That's why I'm fighting for a
tough consumer financial protection agency to protect you against those hidden overdraft fees that can
make a single ATM withdrawal cost 30 bucks. That happened to you, didn't it?
I won't stop fighting to open up government. Now, this is hard to do because we don't control every branch.
But I can tell you we have put in place the toughest ethics laws and toughest transparency rules of any
Administration in history. In history.
By the way, this is the first Administration since the founding of the country where all of you can find out who
visits the White House. First time in history. And that's just one example of how we're trying to constantly
open the process.
And so long as I'm President, I won't stop fighting to cut waste and abuse in Washington -- to eliminate what
we don't need, to pay for what we do; to rein in exploding deficits that we've been accumulating not just last
year but for the last 10.
And I'm going to keep on fighting for real, meaningful health insurance reform. We expanded the Children's
Health Insurance Program to include four million kids -- we already did that. But we are also going to fight to
hold the insurance industry accountable, to bring more stability and security to folks who are in our health
care system. And, yes, I want to make sure that people who don't have health care right now can get some.
It's shameful that we don't do that.
Now, these are some of the fights we've already had, and I can promise you there will be more fights ahead.
I'm not going to win every round. We're having a fight right now because I want to charge Wall Street a
modest fee to repay taxpayers in full for saving their skins in a time of need. We want our money back. We
want our money back. And we're going to get your money back, every dime -- each and every dime.
But it's going to be a fight. You watch. I guarantee you when we start on financial regulatory reform, trying to
change the rules to prevent what has caused so much heartache all across the country, there are people
who are going to say, "Why is he meddling in government?" "Why is meddling in the financial industry?" "It's
another example of Obama being big government."
No, I just want to have some rules in place so that when these guys make dumb decisions, you don't end up
having to foot the bill. That's pretty straightforward. I don't mind having that fight.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
You know, I said at the beginning how much it means to me to be able to travel this country, and how much
it means for me to be here. And that is true now more than ever, because there's no doubt that it's easy to
get a pretty warped view of things in Washington. But then you start talking to the guys working on those
machines, creating products all across the country, you go into the diner and you meet folks who are raising
their kids and working hard and trying to keep things together, and I'm reminded of the strength and the
resilience and the perseverance of the American people. I'm reminded of the fundamental character of the
Americans that I'm so privileged to serve.
It's that character that has borne our nation through the roughest of seas, a lot rougher than the ones we're
going through right now. That's the character that will carry us through this storm to better days ahead. I am
confident of that, because of you. And I'm very grateful for all of you taking the time to be here today.
Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Thank you.
All right, this young lady right back here. Yes, you. There should be a microphone -- wait till the mic comes
so everybody can hear you. Oh, I'm sorry -- that's okay, I'll call on you next. Well, one of you ask your
question.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. It's an honor to be here with you today. I work here in LCCC's
financial services office. I am proud to be part of finding pathways for students who attend college. I feel
that a college education is a lifeline to the future of our citizens. We greatly appreciate the increase in the
Pell Grant, which allowed our neediest students to access a college education. It increased buying power
as college costs continue to rise. My question to you is, will your Administration support continued
increases to the Pell Grant so that our neediest students have access to higher education?
President Obama: The answer is yes. I want everybody to understand, we made -- and this was the help - with the help of the members of Congress who are here -- made an enormous investment in higher
education, making sure that young people could afford to go to great institutions like this. So we
significantly increased the level of each Pell Grant, and we also put more money so that we could have
more Pell Grants.
Now, we want to continue to do this. I mentioned during my formal remarks the fact that a lot of banks and
financial institutions are still serving as middlemen in the financial aid process, and they take out several
billions dollars' worth of profits from that. It turns out that actually it can be administered in such a way
where these loans go directly to the students. And if you do that, then you're saving several billion dollars
that can then be put back into the system. We want to get that finalized; we want to get that done. That will
be an enormous boost.
Now, one thing I have to say, though. Even as we put more money into the Student Loan Program, we are
also trying to reach out to university presidents and administrators to figure out how can we reduce the
inflation in higher education -- because the fact is, is that the only thing that has gone up faster in cost than
health care is -- guess what. Higher education. And the problem is, if we're not thinking about ways to
curve the inflation, then even if we put more money in, what that money is buying becomes less and less.
And so trying to find creative ways for universities to do more with less is going to be important.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, in fairness to universities and colleges, part of the reason they've been having to jack up their costs is
they used to get more support from the state. State budgets got into a hole, and then it became harder, and
so they had to make it up on the tuition side. Nevertheless, what is also true, though, is just their general
costs of operating have gone up in ways that I think we can improve. So we're going to be working on that
as well.
All right? Okay, I've got to call a gentleman, then I got to go back to you because you thought that I called
you and I feel bad. All right. This gentleman right here in the tie. Yes, you look sharp.
Question: Mr. President, thank you. It's an honor to stand before you. Thank you. Earlier in your
message, you mentioned our transit system. Obviously we do need help and we're in dire need to have
some assistance there. But what I didn't hear in anything is your interest in our steel mill. That's a big part
of our community and we desperately need help there as well. We just wondered where Washington's
stance is on our steel mill. Thank you.
President Obama: Well, I was talking to your mayor about this. Obviously he's a big advocate for
manufacturing in the region. I do not have all the details in terms of what's happening at the steel mill at this
moment. But what we've done is we've set up an office in the White House just focused on manufacturing -because it's my view that America's got to make things.
Now, we're not going to make -- I want to be honest. Not all the manufacturing jobs that have gone are
going to come back. And if people tell you they are, that's just not true -- because a lot of that has moved to
places where the wages are just much lower. And I know that some people say, well, then we should just
set up tariffs so that folks can't ship them in. But these days the economy, the global economy is so
interconnected that that's just not a practical solution.
The solution is to find -- and I don't Know the details of the steel mill here -- but I know that the ones that
have been successful, they do what EMC is doing as well, which is you find what's the high-end market.
What's the market that involves a lot of technology, specialization, highly trained workers, quick turnarounds
to spec so that the customers really feel like they're getting something special and different -- that's how you
compete, because that's something that a steel mill in China or in Brazil can't do. They can't compete with
you being on the spot working closely with customers.
So finding ways to develop specialty steels and so forth, that's going to be the key. Our manufacturing
office will be working with folks here in town to see what we can do.
All right? Thank you. All right, back to this young lady here.
Question: First I want to start by saying that I am very grateful to be here to meet you in person. I
absolutely support you and back you. I feel like Rome wasn't built in a day, and I know that everybody is
really impatient, but I know that with time things can be turned around. And I believe that your intentions are
really honorable in that.
President Obama: I appreciate it.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: I am a single mother of three, and I have two quick issues that are very important to me -- one
being that I have a three-year-old, who has just turned three, who got lead poisoning last year and almost
died. And I called everyone, including the EPA of Ohio, and I cannot seem to get any response to this.
President Obama: Well, guess what. I guarantee you that somebody from the EPA is going to call you in
about -- in about five minutes. Before you sit down, there's going to be a phone call from the EPA.
All joking aside -- and I know you have a second question, but I just want to focus on this -- lead poisoning,
a lot of it from lead paint, from older homes all across the country and all across the Midwest is something
that we have to be more aggressive on. This is something that I worked on when I was a U.S. senator,
when I was a state senator. I'm working on it as President, and I will find out directly from them how they
can help not only with your particular situation but what we're doing in this area in terms of lead abatement.
Question: Okay.
President Obama: Okay?
Question: The second thing that I wanted to address to you is the unfair labor laws that they seem to have
in some of these industries as far as discrimination and different issues of that nature that don't seem to get
addressed from the bigger companies. I have actually worked for Ford -- I'm a full-time student now here at
LC, gratefully -- and even when I was working there and I have -- my whole family has actually come up
through Ford -- and there's a lot of very unjust situations that come about, but no attorneys will deal with it,
no one will talk about it, and it's always pushed under the rug. And I -- I do owe my -- what I have now to
Ford because it was what was bread and butter for my family. But at the same time, it's not fair that even at
this point my mother still can't retire, she has to continue to suffer.
President Obama: Well, look, let me just say generally, one of the things that my Administration has been
able to do over the last year that does not cost money is just enforcing laws that are on the books a little
more aggressively, making sure -- I mentioned earlier equal pay for equal work.
We are so past the point where it should be debatable that women get paid the same as men for doing the
same job. And it is something that -- especially because there was a -- it was just released I think last week
showing that increasingly the wives are making more than the husbands in some circumstances. And
whoever is making more, you've got to have two paychecks. So this is not just a "feminist issue" -- you
know, sometimes guys say, well, why do I -- why should I care about it? Well, let me tell you something. If
your wife is getting paid fairly, that means your family is getting paid fairly. And I want my daughters to be
treated the same way as your sons. That's something we shouldn't be arguing about anymore.
All right, gentleman right back here. Yes, it's a guy's turn. Yes, sir.
Question: I'm an inventor, and I hold U.S. patent number 7,397,731.
President Obama: Okay.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: And before I ask my question I'd like to make a sales pitch. If you can use my patent in your
next election, I think you can raise a ton of money worldwide. You should take a look at it.
President Obama: All right, we'll take a look. All right.
Question: If you can't use it, the government could use it, and I could build a multibillion-dollar business
here in Ohio.
President Obama: All right, we'll take a look at your patent. Go ahead, what's your question?
Question: Yes, okay, it has to do with international patent rights. With all this free trade and trade barriers
falling, it's really hard for an individual like me with a global-scope patent to file all over the world and get
patent protection everywhere, and having to go overseas to fight infringement. So if you're going to drop
trade barriers, maybe you can extend my patent rights to the foreign countries.
President Obama: Well, this is a great question, and this is a huge problem. Look, our competitive
advantage in the world is going to be people like this who are using their minds to create new products, new
services. But that only helps us and helps you build a multibillion-dollar company if somebody can't just
steal that idea and suddenly start making it in Indonesia or Malaysia or Bangladesh with very cheap
workers.
And one of the problems that we have had is insufficient protection for intellectual property rights. That's
true in China; it's true for everything from bootleg DVDs to very sophisticated software. And there's nothing
wrong with other people using our technologies. We just want to make sure that it's licensed and you're
getting paid.
So I've given instructions to my trade offices -- and we actually highlight this at the highest levels of foreign
policy -- that these are issues that have to be addressed because that's part of the reciprocity of making our
markets open. And so when I met with President Hu of China, this is a topic that, at dinner, I directly
brought up with him. And -- But as you point out, it's got to be sustained, because a lot of times they'll say,
yes, yes, yes, but then there's no enforcement on their end.
And one of the things that we're also doing is using our export arm of the U.S. government to help work with
medium-sized businesses and small businesses, not just the big multinationals to protect their rights in
some of these areas, because we need to boost exports.
Can I just say, we just went through a decade where we were told that it didn't matter, we'll just -- you just
keep on importing, buying stuff from other countries, you just take out a home equity loan and max out your
credit card, and everything is going to be okay. And it looked, for a lot of people, like, well, the economy
seems to be growing -- but it was all built on a house of cards. That's what we now know. And that's why if
we're going to have a successful manufacturing sector, we've got to have successful exports.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
When I went and took this trip to China, and took this trip to Asia, a lot of people said, "Well, why is he going
to Asia? He's traveling overseas too much. He needs to be coming back home and talking about jobs." I'm
there because that's where we're going to find those jobs, is by increasing our exports to those countries,
the same way they've been doing in our country. If we increased our exports -- our share of exports by just 1
percent, that would mean hundreds of thousands of jobs here in the United States. Five percent -- maybe a
million jobs, well-paying jobs. So we're going to have to pry those markets open. Intellectual property is
part of that process.
All right, great question.
It's a woman's turn now. You guys just put down your hands. Oh, okay, well, this young lady right in front.
We've got a microphone over here. You know, I would give it to you if I could reach, but -- go ahead.
Question: I introduce myself. I'm 83 years old. I know I don't look it.
President Obama: You don't. You don't. You look great.
Question: Thank you. I'm very concerned about Social Security. I think there's a few here who are
probably living on that or supplementing that. I understand that Congress has given themselves a raise but
has denied us COLA for possibly the next three years. At the time of the H1N1 thing, people over 65 were
not given the right to have the shot. For some reason or other this health care crisis was left on our senior
backs. What can we do about this?
President Obama: Well, let me address all three of your issues, because you're raising actually three
separate issues.
First is how do we make sure that Social Security is sustainable over the long term. Social Security is one
of our entitlement programs that for now is stable, but will not be if we don't make some changes. Now,
here's the good news. Compared to Medicare, Social Security is actually in reasonably good shape, and
with some relatively small adjustments, you can have that solvent for a long time. So Social Security is
going to be there. I know a lot of people are concerned about it. Social Security we can fix.
Now, in terms of the COLA, the formula -- COLA stands for Cost of Living Allowance, so it's put in place to
make sure that Social Security is keeping up with inflation. Here's the problem. This past year, because of
the severity of the recession, we didn't have inflation; we actually had deflation. So prices actually fell last
year. As a consequence, technically, seniors were not eligible for a Cost of Living Adjustment, to have it go
up because prices did not go up in the aggregate. That doesn't mean that individual folks weren't being
pinched by higher heating prices or what have you, but on average prices went down.
Here's what we did. Working with these key members of Congress here, we did vote to provide a $250 onetime payment to seniors, which, when you factored it in, amounted to about 1.8 percent. So it was almost
the equivalent of the COLA, even though it wasn't actually the COLA.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we didn't forget seniors. We never forget seniors because they vote at very high rates. Not to mention
you changed our diapers and things. And so we appreciate that.
The third point that you made had to do with the H1N1 virus. The reason that seniors were not prioritized
was because, unlike the seasonal flu shot, H1N1 was deadliest in young people and particularly children.
And because the virus came up fairly late in the time frame for preparing flu shots, we had a limited number
of vaccines, and we had to decide who gets the vaccines first.
Now, by the way, let me just do a little PSA here. Anybody who has not gotten a H1N1 shot, along with their
seasonal flu, I would still advise you to get it, because historically there are two waves of this. Particularly
make sure your kids have gotten it, because there have been a significantly higher number of children killed
under H1 -- who get H1N1 than those who just get the seasonal flu. It's still a small fraction, I don't want to
make everybody afraid. But it's just -- it's a little more serious than the normal seasonal flu.
So it's not that seniors were neglected here. What happened was, according to the science, according to
the CDC, it was determined that we had to go to the most vulnerable groups the quickest, and that was
children, particularly those who had underlying neurological disorders or immunity disorders.
All right? We haven't forgotten about you. And you don't look 83.
Okay. This young man -- he's been standing up quite a long time. There you go.
Question: Mr. President, my name is Jordan Brown. Can you hear me?
President Obama: Yes.
Question: Okay.
President Obama: Go ahead and give him the mic. I don't want to have him fall over there.
Question: Okay. I don't have a question but I do want to know if I would like -- if I can shake your hand.
President Obama: Well, yes, yes, you'll be able to come up here. If somebody lets you through, I'll
definitely give you a handshake. All right, who -- I want to make sure -- you know, there's another young
man here so I'll call on him.
Question: I'm 29 years old, and I've never had a job in my life. I went to jail when I was younger. It's like
hard to get a job as a felon. Is this -- any programs that hire people with felonies like something that -because it's sad, it's like -- 29 years old, I'm 29.
President Obama: All right. Jerome -Question: And also I wanted to -- I'm a poet and I wrote a poem for you and I've been dying to put this
poem in your hand.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Okay. Give me the poem. First of all, it's never too late. It's never too late. One of
these gentlemen here will hand this poem to me. There you go. I won't read it from the stage but -because it's -Question: I'd appreciate it, later when you get back to the White House.
President Obama: But I will definitely think about it.
Look, I'm proud of the fact that you're bringing this up because there are people who've made mistakes,
particularly when they're young, and it is in all of our interests to help them redeem themselves and then get
on a straight path. Now, I don't blame employers obviously for being nervous about hiring somebody who
has a record. It's natural if they've got a lot of applicants for every single job that that's a question that
they'd have in their minds. On the other hand, I think one of the great things about America is we give
people second chances.
And so what we've tried to do -- and I want to say, this has been a bipartisan effort -- when I was in the
Senate, working with Sam Brownback; my Vice President, Joe Biden -- passing a Second Chance Act that
helps to fund programs that help the reintegration of ex-felons. It's smart for us to do. You know, sometimes
people say, well, that's just coddling people. No; you reduce the recidivism rate, they pay taxes, it ends up
being smart for taxpayers to do. I don't know, Jerome, what particular programs may exist in this county, but
I promise you I'll find out. And we'll see if we can get you hooked up with one of them. All right?
Okay, right here. Yes. No, no, no. Right here. Yes. Go ahead.
Question: Mr. President, I started a Great Lakes Truck Driving School in 2008 in Lorain County.
President Obama: I'm sorry, what kind of school?
Question: Great Lakes Truck Driving School.
President Obama: Cross driving school? Oh, truck driving school, I'm sorry.
Question: Great Lakes Truck Driving School. Started in 2008. Our first year we trained 287 people and
we placed over 70 percent of those people into jobs. At that time there was enough money, through the
Workforce Investment Board, to train those people. In the past few months we've had a number of people
on a daily basis coming into our school that's unemployed, but there are no training funds for truck driver
training. And I want to know why that has changed.
President Obama: Well, the Recovery Act put a huge amount of money into retraining. We are now
preparing for next year's budget, and I know that we have actually allocated additional money for retraining.
I don't know specifically what's happening that would cause those dollars to dry up with respect to a truck
driving school. Let me see if I can find out. I'll have one of my staff get your card, and maybe we can
provide you some information.
Question: Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Here's the broader point, though. The story of retraining has become so important.
When I went to EMC, the precision tool-making place, there were a group of guys -- and one guy who said I
should call him "Jerry the Mechanic." He shakes my hand, and he and his buddy are talking to me. I said,
"How long have you been working here?" They said, "Twenty years." And I'd noticed that a lot of the
equipment now is all digital and fancy, compared to the old machines on the other side of the building. I
said, "Well, did you guys have to get additional training for this?" And they said, "Well, you know what
happened was, we used to work in this old plant, and we got laid off. We came here to Lorain Community
College and took a six-month, 12-hour-a-day course that completely retrained us, and that's what got us
these new jobs, and we've been working for over a decade now at these new jobs."
Now, here's the thing. These guys were -- these guys -- first of all, they weren't plants, as far as I know -unless the mayor is a lot slicker than I think. But these guys did point out that it was JTPA funds -- job
training funds that the federal government and the state and local all work together to make sure that people
have access to funds. They also said, though, during that time they were still working eight hours a day
because they had found sort of lower-paying jobs just to pay the rent while they were getting retrained. I
said, "Okay, so you've been working eight hours and going to class 12 hours?" "Yes." I said, "Well, when
do you sleep?" "Well, in between class and taking the shift."
They did this for six months. I tell this story, one, to emphasize how important the college system is in
making our workforce prepared for the 21st century. I make the point because, number two, it only works if
the government is providing some help for people to finance their educations, their retraining.
But point number three is, even if you've got a great community college, you've got the financing, you've
also got to want it. You've also got to want it. Think about these guys -- you work eight hours, you go to
class 12 hours, you're working -- you're sleeping in between, doing that for six months. But because they
were hungry and they had confidence about their ability to translate their old skills into new skills, they've
had steady jobs ever since that allow them to support their families.
Now, that's the partnership between the government, the free market, businesses, individuals -- that's what
we're trying to forge. And that's why I get so frustrated when we have these ideological debates in
Washington where people start saying how, "Oh, Obama is just trying to perpetrate big government." What
big government exactly have we been trying to perpetrate here? We're trying to fund those guys who want
to go to truck driving school. We want to make sure that they've got some money to get trained for a job in
the private sector.
When we passed the Recovery Act, these aren't all a bunch of government jobs. These are jobs that
private contractors contract with the state or the city or the county to build roads and highways, the same
way that we built the Interstate Highway System and the Intercontinental Railroad System.
I mean, I understand how people have become mistrustful of government. We don't need big government;
we need smart government -- that works and interacts with the private sector to create opportunity for
ordinary people. But it can't be this constant ideological argument. People need help. We need to provide
them a helping hand. That's what we stand for.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
All right. I've got time for only, unfortunately, one more question. I've been having a great time. But it is a
man's turn here. All right. Is that you, Joe? Well, this is a ringer. I'm going to talk -- I'll talk to you
separately. This is a friend of mine. People will say, ah, he called on a friend of his. I'll talk to you over to
the side here.
Go ahead, this gentleman right here.
Question: Thank you for taking my question. Thank you for coming here. I'm a 52-year-old businessman
from Akron, Ohio. I want to create 1,200 jobs. I spend $60,000 of my own money to do a due diligence,
travel to China with a German-designed turbine, and they're producing it now in China. I have rights to
North America, primarily the Great Lakes.
Two things that I'm challenged by -- I'm having a very difficult time raising money. I'm not asking for a
handout. All I'm asking is loan me the money; I'll account for it, every dollar, I'll pay it back.
Secondly -- and I'm willing to risk millions -- 99 percent of my net worth. The second thing is that GE has a
patent -- and I believe in patents. I listened to this gentleman back here, and I can truly appreciate what
he's going through. But in this instance, GE inherited this patent from Enron, and it's created a wall so that
they won't let people come in and build turbines in the United States. Now, the patent is going to expire
very soon. But now they're calling it a royalty but it's really a gate to keep people out.
Is there any programs -- I've talked to Governor Strickland, I've talked to Sherrod Brown, I've talked to Lee
Fisher. This company was identified by the city of Akron and Donald Plusquellic's visionary leadership
down in Akron. But I want to bring this to the United States. I want to bring these jobs -- and this not about
money for me. This is about creating jobs.
I can feel for that gentleman that wants to work. He should have a right to work. God bless him.
President Obama: Let me respond -- first of all -Question: Is there any -- is there any federal programs that can help me -- I just want to borrow the money
to create this factory and create these jobs.
President Obama: Well, obviously I don't know about the particular situation so I'll just speak generally to
it. And if you want to get one of my team your card, then maybe they can follow up with you.
But one of the things that we've done -- or one of the things that we've seen coming out of the financial crisis
is that banks are still not lending to small businesses enough. The mayor and I talked about this. The
business owners that I talked to will confirm this. And if you ask why -- if you ask the banks why, they'll say,
well, it's a combination of, in some cases, demand really is down; businesses don't have as many
customers as they used to so revenues are down and -- so they don't want to lend. That's some cases. But
in some cases what you've got is very profitable businesses that are ready to go, ready to invest, got a
proven track record -- the banks feel as if regulators are looking over their shoulder and discouraging them
from lending.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
So what I've said to Treasury Secretary Geithner and others is we can't meddle with independent regulators
-- their job is to stay apart from politics and make sure the banking system is sound -- but there should be a
discussion about whether or not we have seen the pendulum swing too far, where it used to be they'd just
lend anybody anything; then they lost all this money and now they won't lend people with good credit
anything. That is not good for the economy.
So what we've tried to do is to fill some of these gaps in the meantime. For example, our small business
lending through the SBA has actually gone up 70 percent. And we've been waiving fees, increasing
guarantees, and what we're trying to do is streamline the process for SBA loans because right now there's
just too much paperwork. It's typical government not having caught up with the 21st century. And you can't
have a 50-pound application form. People just -- after a while, it's not worth it, in some cases. So we're
trying to do all those things.
Now, with respect to patents, again, I don't know the particular situation. I will say this. It's important that
we protect internationally intellectual property. It is also important though that we have a patent system that
encourages innovation but doesn't just lock in big monopolies that prevent new people from bringing new
products into the system.
The worst offender of this problem is actually the drug companies, because they will try to lock in their
patents for as long as they can to prevent generics from coming onto the market, and that costs customers
billions of dollars. And sometimes the drug company will redesign it so it's a caplet instead of a pill, and
then try to get a new patent, to get another seven or nine or 10 years of coverage. That is something that
we've got to change. I don't know whether that applies to your particular situation, but we have to have a
patent system that doesn't prevent competition. We want a patent system that encourages innovation.
Now, I'm out of time, but I want to say one last thing. First of all, because there's been so much attention
focused on this health care issue this week, I just want to emphasize not the myths but the reality of what is
trying to -- that both the House and the Senate bill were trying to accomplish, because it's actually very
simple. There are a bunch of provisions in it, but it's pretty simple.
Number one, for those of you who have health insurance, we are trying to get in place reforms that make
sure you are getting your money's worth for the insurance that you pay for. That means, for example, that
they can't impose a lifetime cap where if you really get sick and suddenly there's some fine print in there that
says you're not completely covered. We're trying to make sure that there is a cap on out-of-pocket
expenses so that you don't find out, when you read the fine print, that you've got to pay a huge amount that
you thought you were covered for. We're trying to make sure that if you've got a preexisting condition, you
can actually still get health insurance, because a lot of people have been banned from getting health
insurance because of a preexisting condition.
One of the provisions -- one of the reforms we want is to make sure that your 26- or 27-year-old could, up
until that age, could stay on your insurance, so that once they get out of high school and college, they can
stay on their parents' insurance for a few years until they've got a more stable job.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
So you've got all these insurance reforms that we're trying to get passed. Now, some people ask, well, why
don't you just pass that and forget everything else? Here's the problem. Let's just take the example of
preexisting conditions. We can't prohibit insurance companies from preventing people with preexisting
conditions getting insurance unless everybody essentially has insurance. And the reason for that is
otherwise what would happen is people would just -- just wouldn't get insurance until they were sick and
then they'd go and buy insurance and they couldn't be prohibited. And that would drive everybody else's
premiums up.
So a lot of these insurance reforms are connected to some other things we have to do to make sure that
everybody has some access to coverage. All right?
So the second thing we've been trying to do is to make sure that we're setting up an exchange, which is just
a big pool so that people who are individuals, who are self employed, who are small business owners, they
can essentially join a big pool of millions of people all across the country, which means that when you go to
negotiate with your insurance company you've got the purchasing power of a Ford or a GM or Wal-Mart or a
Xerox or the federal employees. That's why federal employees have good insurance, and county
employees and state employees have good insurance, in part is because they're part of this big pool.
And our attitude is, can we make sure that everybody is part of a big pool to drive down costs. That's the
second thing we're trying to do.
Third thing we're trying to do is to try to reduce costs overall because the system -- how many of you, you go
into the doctor's office, you fill out a form, you get a checkup, you go fill out another form, somebody else
asks you for the form you just filled out. Then the doctor fills out a form, you got to take it to the pharmacist.
The pharmacist can't read the doctor's -- this is the only industry in the country that still does that, that still
operates on paper systems, that still orders all kinds of unnecessary tests.
Because a lot of times, I walk in the doctor, I just do what I'm told -- I don't know what he's doing. I don't
know whether this test was necessary or whether we could have had the test that I took six months ago emailed to the doctor so I wouldn't have to take another test and pay for another test. Right? So there are all
these methods of trying to reduce costs. And that's what we've been trying to institute.
Now, I just want to say, as I said in my opening remarks, the process has been less than pretty. When you
deal with 535 members of Congress, it's going to be a somewhat ugly process -- not necessarily because
any individual member of Congress is trying to do something wrong, it's just they may have different ideas,
they have different interests, they've got a particular issue of a hospital in their district that they want to see
if they can kind of get dealt with and this may be the best vehicle for doing it. They're looking out for their
constituents a lot of times.
But when you put it all together, it starts looking like just this monstrosity. And it makes people fearful. And
it makes people afraid. And they start thinking, you know what, this looks like something that is going to
cost me tax dollars and I already have insurance so why should I support this.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 17

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I just want to be clear that there are things that have to get done. This is our best chance to do it. We
can't keep on putting this off. Even if you've got health insurance right now, look at what's happening with
your premiums and look at the trend. It is going to gobble up more and more of your paycheck. Ask a chunk
of you folks in here who have seen your employers say you've got to pick up more of your payments in
terms of higher deductibles or higher copayments. Some of you, your employers just said, we can't afford
health insurance at all. That's going to happen to more and more people.
You asked about Social Security. Let me talk about Medicare. Medicare will be broke in eight years if we
do nothing. Right now we give -- we give about $17 billion in subsidies to insurance companies through the
Medicare system -- your tax dollars. But when we tried to eliminate them, suddenly there were ads on TV -"Oh, Obama is trying to cut Medicare." I get all these seniors writing letters: "Why are you trying to cut my
Medicare benefits?" I'm not trying to cut your Medicare benefits. I'm trying to stop paying these insurance
companies all this money so I can give you a more stable program.
The point is this: None of the big issues that we face in this country are simple. Everybody wants to act like
they're simple. Everybody wants to say that they can be done easily. But they're complicated. They're
tough. The health care system is a big, complicated system, and doing it right is hard.
Energy. If we want to be energy independent -- I'm for more oil production. I am for -- I am for new forms of
energy. I'm for a safe nuclear industry. I'm not ideological about this. But we also have to acknowledge
that if we're going to actually have a energy-independent economy, that we've got to make some changes.
We can't just keep on doing business the same way. And that's going to be a big, complicated discussion.
We can't shy away from it, though. We can't sort of start suddenly saying to ourselves, America or
Congress can't do big things; that we should only do the things that are non-controversial; we should only
do the stuff that's safe. Because if that's what happens, then we're not going to meet the challenges of the
21st century. And that's not who we are. That's not how we used to operate, and that's not how I intend us
to operate going forward.
We are going to take these big things on, and I'm going to do it, and you're going to do it, because you know
that we want to leave a better America for our children and our grandchildren. And that doesn't mean
standing still; that means marching forward.
I want to march forward with you. I want to work with you. I want to fight for you. I hope you're willing to
stand by me, even during these tough times, because I believe in a brighter future for America.
Thank you, everybody. God bless you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 18
</doc>
<doc id="file32329919" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Miami_Dade_College_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Miami%20Dade%20College%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at Miami Dade College

Delivered 29 April 2011, James L. Knight International Center

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you, Miami Dade! Thank you. Please, everyone, be seated.
Hafeeza, thank you for that wonderful introduction. To Dr. Padrón, Dr. Vicente, to the board of
trustees, the faculty, parents, family, friends, and, most important, the class of 2011,
congratulations -- congratulations on reaching this day.
And thank you for allowing me the profound honor of being a part of it. And thank you for my
first honorary associate degree. One of the perks of this job is that degrees come free these
days. Not that it impresses anybody at home. Now Michelle just says, “Hey, Doctor, go take
that dog for a walk.”
It is such a thrill to be at one of the largest, most diverse institutions of higher learning in
America -- one that just this week was named one of the top community colleges in the
nation. More than 170,000 students study across your eight campuses. You come from 181
countries, represented by the flags that just marched across this stage. You speak 94
languages. About 90 percent of you are minorities. And because more than 90 percent of you
find a job in your field of study, it’s fitting that your motto is “Opportunity changes
everything.”
As someone who’s only here because of the chances my education gave me, I couldn’t agree
more.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Opportunity changes everything. America will only be as strong in this new century as the
opportunities that we provide you -- the opportunities that we provide to all our young people
-- Latino, black, white, Asian, Native American, everybody. America will only be as strong as
our pursuit of scientific research and our leadership in technology and innovation. And I
believe that community colleges like this one are critical pathways to the middle class that
equip students with the skills and the education necessary to compete and win in this 21stcentury economy.
And that’s why I’ve made community colleges a centerpiece of my education agenda, along
with helping more students afford college. I couldn’t be prouder of the work we’ve done in
community colleges. And your accomplishment today is vital to America reclaiming the highest
proportion of college graduates in the world by 2020. So I am proud of you. I am proud of
you.
I know that for many of you reaching this day wasn’t easy.
AUDIENCE: No.
THE PRESIDENT: See? I got some amens there.
Perhaps you’re the first in your family to go to college. Some of you have had to overcome big
obstacles, defeat your own doubts, prove yourself to everyone who ever believed that you
couldn’t make it because of what you look like or where you came from. And, of course -- of
course, for so many of you, this day represents the fulfillment of your family’s dreams when
you were born. This is their achievement as well, so give it up for your parents and your
grandparents, your cousins and your uncles and your aunties. This is their day, too. This is
their day, too.
See, the diploma you’re about to receive stands for something more than the investment you
made in yourselves. It’s the result of an investment made by generations before you; an
investment in that radical yet simple idea that America is a place -- the place -- where you
can make it if you try. That’s the ideal that has made this country -- that’s the idea that’s
represented by that one flag that all of you cheered for; that’s what has made us a shining
light to the world.
And preserving this idea -- keeping the American Dream alive from one generation to the next
-- that’s never been an easy task. It’s an even greater test in times of rapid change. And all of
you are graduating at a moment when change is coming faster than ever before. We’re
emerging from an economic downturn like we haven’t seen since the 1930s. Massive shifts in
technology have shifted profoundly what our economy looks like. Massive shifts abroad
geopolitically have swift and dramatic impacts not only overseas but also here at home, from
markets on Wall Street to wallets on Main Street.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Just as advances in technology have the power to make our lives better, they also force us to
compete with other nations like never before. Tackling big challenges like terrorism and
climate change require sustained national effort, and yet too often, our politics seems as
broken, as divided as ever.
So I know that for many of you it’s an intimidating time to be marching out into the world.
Everything seems so unsettled. The future may seem unclear. But as you make your way in
this ever changing world, you should take comfort in knowing that as a country, we’ve
navigated tougher times before. We’ve sailed stormier seas. Earlier today, I spent some time
in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. And some of you have seen what happened there as a consequence
of the tornadoes that struck. The mayor and I visited a community where the devastation
from this storm was simply heartbreaking -- entire homes and blocks just gone, wiped away.
Some families lost everything. Some families lost family.
But what was striking is the way that damaged community has come together, how they’ve
rallied around one another. The mayor there, young man doing wonderful work, Mayor
Maddox, he put it best. He told me that when disasters like this strike, all our grievances seem
to go away. All our differences don’t seem to matter. All our political disagreements seem so
petty. We help each other, we support one another, as one country, as one people.
That’s the American spirit. No matter how hard we are tested, we look to our faith and our
faith in one another. No matter what the challenge, we’ve always carried the American Dream
forward. That’s been true throughout our history.
When bombs fell on Pearl Harbor, when an Iron Curtain fell over Europe, when the threat of
nuclear war loomed just 90 miles from this city, when a brilliant September morning was
darkened by terror -- in none of those instances did we falter. We endured. We carried the
dream forward.
We’ve gone through periods of great economic turmoil, from an economy where most people
worked on farms to one where most people worked in factories to now one fueled by
information and technology. Through it all, we’ve persevered. We’ve adapted. We’ve
prospered. Workers found their voice, and the right to organize for fair wages and safe
working conditions. We carried forward.
When waves of Irish and Italian immigrants were derided as criminals and outcasts; when
Catholics were discriminated against, or Jews had to succumb to quotas, or Muslims were
blamed for society’s ills; when blacks were treated as second-class citizens and marriages like
my own parents’ were illegal in much of the country -- we didn’t stop. We didn’t accept
inequality. We fought. We overcame. We carried the dream forward.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We have carried this dream forward through times when our politics seemed broken. This is
not the first time where it looked like politicians were going crazy. In heated debates over our
founding, some warned independence would doom America to “a scene of bloody discord and
desolation for ages.” That was the warning about independence. One of our greatest
Presidents, Thomas Jefferson, was labeled an “infidel” and a “howling atheist” with “fangs.”
Think about that. Even I haven’t gotten that one yet. Lincoln -- Lincoln, FDR, they were both
vilified in their own times as tyrants, power hungry, bent on destroying democracy. And of
course, this state has seen its fair share of tightly contested elections.
And we’ve made it through those moments. None of it was easy. A lot of it was messy.
Sometimes there was violence. Sometimes it took years, even decades, for us to find our way
through. But here’s the thing. We made it through. We made it through because in each of
those moments, we made a choice.
Rather than turn inward and wall off America from the rest of the world, we’ve chosen to
stand up forcefully for the ideals and the rights we believe are universal for all men and
women.
Rather than settle for an America where everybody is left to fend for themselves, where we
think only about our own short-term needs instead of the country that we’re leaving to our
children, we have chosen to build a nation where everybody has a shot at opportunity, where
everyone can succeed.
We’ve chosen to invest in our people and in their future -- building public schools, sending a
generation to college on the GI Bill, laying highways and railroads, building ports all across the
country.
Rather than turn on each other in times of cultural upheaval, we’ve chosen to march, to
organize, to sit-in, to turn out, to petition our government for women’s rights and voting
rights and civil rights -- even in the face of fierce resistance -- because we are Americans; and
no matter who we are or what we look like, we believe that in this country, all are equal, all
are free.
Rather than give in to the voices suggesting we set our sights lower, downsize our dreams, or
settle for something less, we’ve chosen again and again to make America bigger, bolder, more
diverse, more generous, more hopeful.
Because throughout our history, what has distinguished us from all other nations is not just
our wealth, it’s not just our power. It’s been our deep commitment to individual freedom and
personal responsibility, but also our unshakeable commitment to one another -- a recognition
that we share a future; that we rise or fall together; that we are part of a common enterprise
that is greater, somehow, than the sum of its parts.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So, yes, class of 2011, change will be a constant in your lives. And that can be scary. That can
be hard. And sometimes you’ll be tempted to turn inward; to say “What’s good enough for me
is good enough.” Sometimes you’ll be tempted to turn on one another; to say “My problems
are the fault of those who don’t look like me or sound like me.” Sometime you’ll be tempted to
give into those voices that warn: “too hard,” “don’t try,” “no, you can’t.”
But I have faith you will reject those voices. I have faith you will reject those impulses. Your
generation was born into a world with fewer walls; a world educated in an era of information,
tempered by war and economic turmoil. And as our globe has grown smaller and more
connected, you’ve shed the heavy weights of earlier generations. Your generation has grown
up more accepting and tolerant of people for who they are, regardless of race or gender or
religious belief; regardless of creed or sexual orientation. That’s how you’ve grown up. You
see our diversity as a strength, not a weakness. And I believe those life experiences have
fortified you, as earlier generations were fortified, to meet the tests of our time. Everything I
have seen of your generation has shown me that you believe, as deeply as any previous
generation, that America can always change for the better.
Class of 2011, you and your generation are now responsible for our future. I’m only going to
be President a little bit longer. You are going to be leaders for many years to come. You will
have to make choices to keep our dream alive for the next generation. Choices about whether
we’ll stack the deck against workers and the middle class, or whether we make sure America
remains a place where if you work hard you can get ahead.
You’re going to have to make a choice about whether we’ll say we can’t afford to educate our
young people and send them to college, or whether we continue to be a country that makes
investments that are necessary to keep those young people competitive in this new century. It
will be up to you to choose whether we’ll remain vulnerable to swings in oil prices or whether
we invest in the clean energy that can break our dependence on oil and protect our planet. It
will be your choice as to whether we break our promise to seniors and the poor and the
disabled and tell them to fend for themselves, or whether we keep strengthening our social
safety net and our health care system.
And it will be up to you whether we’ll turn on one another, or whether we stay true to our
values of fairness and opportunity, understanding that we are a nation of immigrants -immigrants that built this country into an economic powerhouse and a beacon of hope around
the world.
I know this last issue generates some passion. I know that several young people here have
recently identified themselves as undocumented. Some were brought here as young children,
and discovered the truth only as adults. And they’ve put their futures on the line in hopes it
will spur the rest of us to live up to our most cherished values.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I strongly believe we should fix our broken immigration system. Fix it so that it meets our
21st-century economic and security needs. And I want to work with Democrats and
Republicans, yes, to protect our borders, and enforce our laws, and address the status of
millions of undocumented workers. And I will keep fighting alongside many of you to make the
DREAM Act the law of the land.
Like all of this country’s movements towards justice, it will be difficult and it will take time. I
know some here wish that I could just bypass Congress and change the law myself. But that’s
not how democracy works. See, democracy is hard. But it’s right.
Changing our laws means doing the hard work of changing minds and changing votes, one by
one. And I am convinced we can change the laws, because we should all be able to agree that
it makes no sense to expel talented young people from our country. They grew up as
Americans. They pledge allegiance to our flag. And if they are trying to serve in our military or
earn a degree, they are contributing to our future -- and we welcome those contributions.
We didn’t raise the Statue of Liberty with its back to the world; we raised it with its light to
the world. Whether your ancestors came here on the Mayflower or a slave ship; whether they
signed in at Ellis Island or they crossed the Rio Grande -- we are one people. We need one
another. Our patriotism is not rooted in ethnicity, but in a shared belief of the enduring and
permanent promise of this country.
That’s the promise redeemed by your graduation today. That’s the promise that drew so many
of you to this college and your parents to this country. And that’s the promise that drew my
own father here.
I didn’t know him well, my father -- and he lived a troubled life. But I know that when he was
around your age, he dreamed of something more than his lot in life. He dreamed of that
magical place; he dreamed of coming to study in America.
And when I was around your age, I traveled back to his home country of Kenya for the first
time to learn his story. And I went to a tiny village called Alego, where his stepmother still
lives in the house where he grew up, and I visited his grave. And I asked her if there was
anything left for me to know him by. And she opened a trunk, and she took out a stack of
letters -- and this is an elderly woman who doesn’t read or write -- but she had saved these
letters, more than 30 of them, written in his hand and addressed to colleges and universities
all across America.
They weren’t that different from the letters that I wrote when I was trying to get into college,
or the ones that you wrote when you were hoping to come here. They were written in the
simple, sometimes awkward, sometimes grammatically incorrect, unmistakably hopeful voice
of somebody who is just desperate for a chance -- just desperate to live his unlikely dream.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And somebody at the University of Hawaii -- halfway around the world -- chose to give him
that chance. And because that person gave a young man a chance, he met a young woman
from Kansas; they had a son in the land where all things are possible.
And one of my earliest memories from growing up in Hawaii, is of sitting on my grandfather’s
shoulders to see the astronauts from one of the Apollo space missions come ashore after a
successful splashdown. You remember that no matter how young you are as a child. It’s one
of those unforgettable moments when you first realize the miracle that is what this country is
capable of. And I remember waving a little American flag on top of my grandfather’s
shoulders, thinking about those astronauts, and thinking about space.
And today, on this day, more than 40 years later, I took my daughters to the Kennedy Space
Center. And even though we didn’t get to see the Space Shuttle Endeavour launch, we met
some of the astronauts, and we toured the Space Shuttle Atlantis. And looking at my
daughters, I thought of how things come full circle. I thought of all that we’ve achieved as a
nation since I was their age, a little brown boy sitting on my grandfather’s shoulders -- and I
thought about all I want us to achieve by the time they have children of their own.
That’s my proof that the idea of America endures. That’s my evidence that our brave endeavor
on this Earth continues.
And every single day I walk into the Oval Office, and for all the days of my life, I will always
remember that in no other nation on Earth could my story be possible, could your stories be
possible. That is something I celebrate. That is something that drives every decision I make.
So what I ask of you, graduates, as you walk out of here today is this: Pursue success. Do not
falter. When you make it, pull somebody else up. Preserve our dream. Remember your life is
richer when people around you have a shot at opportunity as well. Strive to widen that circle
of possibility; strive to forge that big, generous, optimistic vision of America that we inherited;
strive to carry that dream forward to future generations.
Thank you. Congratulations. May God bless you. May God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329806" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Michigan_University_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Michigan%20University%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at the University of Michigan
delivered 01 May 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

It is great to be here in The Big House -- and so may I say, “Go Blue!” I thought I’d go for the
cheap applause line to start things off.
Good afternoon, President Coleman, the Board of Trustees, to faculty, parents, family and
friends of the class of 2010. Congratulations on your graduation, and thank you for allowing
me the honor of being a part of it. Let me acknowledge your wonderful governor, Jennifer
Granholm; your mayor, John Hieftje; and all the members of Congress who are here today.
It is a privilege to be with you on this happy occasion, and, you know, it’s nice to spend a little
time outside of Washington. Now, don’t get me wrong -- Washington is a beautiful city. It’s
very nice living above the store; you can’t beat the commute. It’s just sometimes all you hear
in Washington is the clamor of politics. And all that noise can drown out the voices of the
people who sent you there. So when I took office, I decided that each night I would read 10
letters out of the tens of thousands that are sent to us by ordinary Americans every day -this is my modest effort to remind myself of why I ran in the first place.
Some of these letters tell stories of heartache and struggle. Some express gratitude, some
express anger. I'd say a good solid third call me an idiot -- which is how I know that I’m
getting a good, representative sample. Some of the letters make you think -- like the one
that I received last month from a kindergarten class in Virginia.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, the teacher of this class instructed the students to ask me any question they wanted.
So one asked, “How do you do your job?” Another asked, “Do you work a lot?” Somebody
wanted to know if I wear a black jacket or if I have a beard -- so clearly they were getting me
mixed up with the other tall guy from Illinois. And one of my favorites was from a kid who
wanted to know if I lived next to a volcano. I'm still trying to piece the thought process on
this one. Loved this letter.
But it was the last question from the last student in the letter that gave me pause. The
student asked, “Are people being nice?” Are people being nice?
Well, if you turn on the news today, or yesterday, or a week ago, or a month ago -particularly one of the cable channels -- you can see why even a kindergartener would ask
this question. We’ve got politicians calling each other all sorts of unflattering names. Pundits
and talking heads shout at each other. The media tends to play up every hint of conflict,
because it makes for a sexier story -- which means anyone interested in getting coverage
feels compelled to make their arguments as outrageous and as incendiary as possible.
Now, some of this contentiousness can be attributed to the incredibly difficult moment in
which we find ourselves as a nation. The fact is, when you leave here today you will search
for work in an economy that is still emerging from the worst crisis since the Great
Depression. You live in a century where the speed with which jobs and industries move
across the globe is forcing America to compete like never before. You will raise your children
at a time when threats like terrorism and climate change aren’t confined within the borders of
any one country. And as our world grows smaller and more connected, you will live and work
with more people who don’t look like you or think like you or come from where you do.
I really enjoyed Alex’s remarks because that's a lot of change. And all these changes, all
these challenges, inevitably cause some tension in the body politic. They make people worry
about the future and sometimes they get people riled up.
But I think it’s important that we maintain some historic perspective. Since the days of our
founding, American politics has never been a particularly nice business. It’s always been a
little less gentile during times of great change. A newspaper of the opposing party once
editorialized that if Thomas Jefferson were elected, “Murder, robbery, rape, adultery, and
incest will be openly taught and practiced.” Not subtle. Opponents of Andrew Jackson often
referred to his mother as a “common prostitute,” which seems a little over the top. Presidents
from Teddy Roosevelt to Lyndon Johnson have been accused of promoting socialism, or
worse. And we’ve had arguments between politicians that have been settled with actual
duels. There was even a caning once on the floor of the United States Senate -- which I’m
happy to say didn’t happen while I was there. It was a few years before.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
The point is, politics has never been for the thin-skinned or the faint-of-heart, and if you enter
the arena, you should expect to get roughed up. Moreover, democracy in a nation of more
than 300 million people is inherently difficult. It’s always been noisy and messy, contentious,
complicated. We’ve been fighting about the proper size and role of government since the day
the Framers gathered in Philadelphia. We’ve battled over the meaning of individual freedom
and equality since the Bill of Rights was drafted. As our economy has shifted emphasis from
agriculture to industry, to information, to technology, we have argued and struggled at each
and every juncture over the best way to ensure that all of our citizens have a shot at
opportunity.
So before we get too depressed about the current state of our politics, let’s remember our
history. The great debates of the past all stirred great passions. They all made somebody
angry, and at least once led to a terrible war. What is amazing is that despite all the conflict,
despite all its flaws and its frustrations, our experiment in democracy has worked better than
any form of government on Earth.
On the last day of the Constitutional Convention, Benjamin Franklin was famously asked,
“Well, Doctor, what have we got -- a republic or a monarchy?” And Franklin gave an answer
that’s been quoted for ages: He said, “A republic, if you can keep it.” If you can keep it.
Well, for more than 200 years, we have kept it. Through revolution and civil war, our
democracy has survived. Through depression and world war, it has prevailed. Through
periods of great social and economic unrest, from civil rights to women’s rights, it has allowed
us slowly, sometimes painfully, to move towards a more perfect union.
And so now, class of 2010, the question for your generation is this: How will you keep our
democracy going? At a moment when our challenges seem so big and our politics seem so
small, how will you keep our democracy alive and vibrant; how will you keep it well in this
century?
I’m not here to offer some grand theory or detailed policy prescription. But let me offer a few
brief reflections based on my own experiences and the experiences of our country over the
last two centuries.
First of all, American democracy has thrived because we have recognized the need for a
government that, while limited, can still help us adapt to a changing world. On the fourth
panel of the Jefferson Memorial is a quote I remember reading to my daughters during our
first visit there. It says, “I am not an advocate for frequent changes in laws and constitutions,
but...with the change of circumstances, institutions must advance also to keep pace with the
times.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The democracy designed by Jefferson and the other founders was never intended to solve
every problem with a new law or a new program. Having thrown off the tyranny of the British
Empire, the first Americans were understandably skeptical of government. And ever since
we’ve held fast to the belief that government doesn’t have all the answers, and we have
cherished and fiercely defended our individual freedom. That’s a strand of our nation’s DNA.
But the other strand is the belief that there are some things we can only do together, as one
nation -- and that our government must keep pace with the times. When America expanded
from a few colonies to an entire continent, and we needed a way to reach the Pacific, our
government helped build the railroads. When we transitioned from an economy based on
farms to one based on factories, and workers needed new skills and training, our nation set up
a system of public high schools.
When the markets crashed during the Depression and people lost their life savings, our
government put in place a set of rules and safeguards to make sure that such a crisis never
happened again, and then put a safety net in place to make sure that our elders would never
be impoverished the way they had been. And because our markets and financial systems
have evolved since then, we’re now putting in place new rules and safeguards to protect the
American people.
Now, this notion -- this notion, class, hasn’t always been partisan. It was the first Republican
President, Abraham Lincoln, who said the role of government is to do for the people what they
cannot do better for themselves. And he’d go on to begin that first intercontinental railroad
and set up the first land-grant colleges. It was another Republican, Teddy Roosevelt, who
said, “the object of government is the welfare of the people.” And he’s remembered for using
the power of government to break up monopolies, and establish our National Park system.
Democrat Lyndon Johnson announced the Great Society during a commencement here at
Michigan, but it was the Republican President before him, Dwight Eisenhower, who launched
the massive government undertaking known as the Interstate Highway System.
Of course, there have always been those who’ve opposed such efforts. They argue
government intervention is usually inefficient; that it restricts individual freedom and dampens
individual initiative. And in certain instances, that’s been true. For many years, we had a
welfare system that too often discouraged people from taking responsibility for their own
upward mobility. At times, we’ve neglected the role of parents, rather than government, in
cultivating a child’s education. And sometimes regulation fails, and sometimes their benefits
don’t justify their costs.
But what troubles me is when I hear people say that all of government is inherently bad. One
of my favorite signs during the health care debate was somebody who said, “Keep Your
Government Hands Out Of My Medicare” -- which is essentially saying “Keep Government Out
Of My Government-Run Health Care Plan.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
When our government is spoken of as some menacing, threatening foreign entity, it ignores
the fact that in our democracy, government is us. We, the people -- We, the people, hold in
our hands the power to choose our leaders and change our laws, and shape our own destiny.
Government is the police officers who are protecting our communities, and the servicemen
and women who are defending us abroad. Government is the roads you drove in on and the
speed limits that kept you safe. Government is what ensures that mines adhere to safety
standards and that oil spills are cleaned up by the companies that caused them. Government
is this extraordinary public university -- a place that’s doing lifesaving research, and catalyzing
economic growth, and graduating students who will change the world around them in ways big
and small.
The truth is, the debate we’ve had for decades now between more government and less
government, it doesn’t really fit the times in which we live. We know that too much
government can stifle competition and deprive us of choice and burden us with debt. But
we’ve also clearly seen the dangers of too little government -- like when a lack of
accountability on Wall Street nearly leads to the collapse of our entire economy.
So, class of 2010, what we should be asking is not whether we need “big government” or a
“small government,” but how we can create a smarter and better government. Because in an
era of iPods and Tivo, where we have more choices than ever before -- even though I can't
really work a lot of these things -- but I have 23-year-olds who do it for me -- government
shouldn’t try to dictate your lives. But it should give you the tools you need to succeed.
Government shouldn’t try to guarantee results, but it should guarantee a shot at opportunity
for every American who’s willing to work hard.
So -- So, yes, we can and should debate the role of government in our lives. But remember,
as you are asked to meet the challenges of our time, remember that the ability for us to adapt
our government to the needs of the age has helped make our democracy work since its
inception.
Now, the second way to keep our democracy healthy is to maintain a basic level of civility in
our public debate. These arguments we’re having over government and health care and war
and taxes -- these are serious arguments. They should arouse people’s passions, and it’s
important for everybody to join in the debate, with all the vigor that the maintenance of a free
people requires.
But we can’t expect to solve our problems if all we do is tear each other down. You can
disagree with a certain policy without demonizing the person who espouses it. You can
question somebody’s views and their judgment without questioning their motives or their
patriotism. Throwing around phrases like “socialists” and “Soviet-style takeover” and “fascist”
and “right-wing nut” -- that may grab headlines, but it also has the effect of comparing our
government, our political opponents, to authoritarian, even murderous regimes.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, we’ve seen this kind of politics in the past. It’s been practiced by both fringes of the
ideological spectrum, by the left and the right, since our nation’s birth. But it’s starting to
creep into the center of our discourse. And the problem with it is not the hurt feelings or the
bruised egos of the public officials who are criticized. Remember, they signed up for it.
Michelle always reminds me of that. The problem is that this kind of vilification and over-thetop rhetoric closes the door to the possibility of compromise. It undermines democratic
deliberation. It prevents learning -- since, after all, why should we listen to a “fascist,” or a
“socialist,” or a “right-wing nut,” or a left-wing nut”?
It makes it nearly impossible for people who have legitimate but bridgeable differences to sit
down at the same table and hash things out. It robs us of a rational and serious debate, the
one we need to have about the very real and very big challenges facing this nation. It
coarsens our culture, and at its worst, it can send signals to the most extreme elements of our
society that perhaps violence is a justifiable response.
So what do we do? As I found out after a year in the White House, changing this type of
politics is not easy. And part of what civility requires is that we recall the simple lesson most
of us learned from our parents: Treat others as you would like to be treated, with courtesy
and respect. But civility in this age also requires something more than just asking if we can’t
just all get along.
Today’s 24/7 echo-chamber amplifies the most inflammatory soundbites louder and faster
than ever before. And it’s also, however, given us unprecedented choice. Whereas most
Americans used to get their news from the same three networks over dinner, or a few
influential papers on Sunday morning, we now have the option to get our information from
any number of blogs or websites or cable news shows. And this can have both a good and
bad development for democracy. For if we choose only to expose ourselves to opinions and
viewpoints that are in line with our own, studies suggest that we become more polarized,
more set in our ways. That will only reinforce and even deepen the political divides in this
country.
But if we choose to actively seek out information that challenges our assumptions and our
beliefs, perhaps we can begin to understand where the people who disagree with us are
coming from.
Now, this requires us to agree on a certain set of facts to debate from. That’s why we need a
vibrant and thriving news business that is separate from opinion makers and talking heads.
That’s why we need an educated citizenry that values hard evidence and not just assertion.
As Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan famously once said, “Everybody is entitled to his own
opinion, but not his own facts.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Still, if you’re somebody who only reads the editorial page of The New York Times, try
glancing at the [Opinion] page of The Wall Street Journal once in a while. If you’re a fan of
Glenn Beck or Rush Limbaugh, try reading a few columns on the Huffington Post website. It
may make your blood boil; your mind may not be changed. But the practice of listening to
opposing views is essential for effective citizenship. It is essential for our democracy.
And so, too, is the practice of engaging in different experiences with different kinds of people.
I look out at this class and I realize for four years at Michigan you have been exposed to
diverse thinkers and scholars, professors and students. Don’t narrow that broad intellectual
exposure just because you’re leaving here. Instead, seek to expand it. If you grew up in a
big city, spend some time with somebody who grew up in a rural town.
If you find yourself only hanging around with people of your own race or ethnicity or religion,
include people in your circle who have different backgrounds and life experiences. You’ll learn
what it’s like to walk in somebody else’s shoes, and in the process, you will help to make this
democracy work.
Which brings me to the last ingredient in a functioning democracy, one that's perhaps most
basic -- and it’s already been mentioned -- and that is participation.
Class of 2010, I understand that one effect of today’s poisonous political climate is to push
people away from participation in public life. If all you see when you turn on the TV is namecalling, if all you hear about is how special interest lobbying and partisanship prevented
Washington from getting something done, you might think to yourself, “What’s the point of
getting involved?”
Here’s the point. When we don’t pay close attention to the decisions made by our leaders,
when we fail to educate ourselves about the major issues of the day, when we choose not to
make our voices and opinions heard, that’s when democracy breaks down. That’s when power
is abused. That’s when the most extreme voices in our society fill the void that we leave.
That’s when powerful interests and their lobbyists are most able to buy access and influence
in the corridors of power -- because none of us are there to speak up and stop them.
Participation in public life doesn’t mean that you all have to run for public office -- though we
could certainly use some fresh faces in Washington. But it does mean that you should pay
attention and contribute in any way that you can. Stay informed. Write letters, or make
phone calls on behalf of an issue you care about. If electoral politics isn’t your thing, continue
the tradition so many of you started here at Michigan and find a way to serve your community
and your country -- an act that will help you stay connected to your fellow citizens and
improve the lives of those around you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
It was 50 years ago that a young candidate for president came here to Michigan and delivered
a speech that inspired one of the most successful service projects in American history. And as
John F. Kennedy described the ideals behind what would become the Peace Corps, he issued a
challenge to the students who had assembled in Ann Arbor on that October night: “on your
willingness to contribute part of your life to this country,” he said, will depend the answer
whether a free society can compete. I think it can,” he said.
This democracy we have is a precious thing. For all the arguments and all the doubts and all
the cynicism that’s out there today, we should never forget that as Americans, we enjoy more
freedoms and opportunities than citizens in any other nation on Earth. We are free to speak
our mind and worship as we please. We are free to choose our leaders, and criticize them if
they let us down. We have the chance to get an education, and work hard, and give our
children a better life.
None of this came easy. None of this was preordained. The men and women who sat in your
chairs 10 years ago and 50 years ago and 100 years ago -- they made America possible
through their toil and their endurance and their imagination and their faith. Their success,
and America’s success, was never a given. And there is no guarantee that the graduates who
will sit in these same seats 10 years from now, or 50 years from now, or 100 years from now,
will enjoy the same freedoms and opportunities that you do. You, too, will have to strive.
You, too, will have to push the boundaries of what seems possible. For the truth is, our
nation’s destiny has never been certain.
What is certain -- what has always been certain -- is the ability to shape that destiny. That is
what makes us different. That is what sets us apart. That is what makes us Americans -- our
ability at the end of the day to look past all of our differences and all of our disagreements
and still forge a common future. That task is now in your hands, as is the answer to the
question posed at this university half a century ago about whether a free society can still
compete.
If you are willing, as past generations were willing, to contribute part of your life to the life of
this country, then I, like President Kennedy, believe we can. Because I believe in you.
Congratulations on your graduation, 2010. May God bless you, and may God bless the United
States of America.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329933" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Middle_East_Diplomacy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Middle%20East%20Diplomacy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
On American Diplomacy in Middle East and Northern Africa

Delivered 19 May 2011, State Department, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much. Thank you. Please, have a seat. Thank you very much. I want to begin
by thanking Hillary Clinton, who has traveled so much these last six months that she is
approaching a new landmark -- one million frequent flyer miles. I count on Hillary every single
day, and I believe that she will go down as one of the finest Secretaries of State in our
nation’s history.
The State Department is a fitting venue to mark a new chapter in American diplomacy. For six
months, we have witnessed an extraordinary change taking place in the Middle East and North
Africa. Square by square, town by town, country by country, the people have risen up to
demand their basic human rights. Two leaders have stepped aside. More may follow. And
though these countries may be a great distance from our shores, we know that our own future
is bound to this region by the forces of economics and security, by history and by faith.
Today, I want to talk about this change -- the forces that are driving it and how we can
respond in a way that advances our values and strengthens our security.
Now, already, we’ve done much to shift our foreign policy following a decade defined by two
costly conflicts. After years of war in Iraq, we’ve removed 100,000 American troops and
ended our combat mission there. In Afghanistan, we’ve broken the Taliban’s momentum, and
this July we will begin to bring our troops home and continue a transition to Afghan lead. And
after years of war against al Qaeda and its affiliates, we have dealt al Qaeda a huge blow by
killing its leader, Osama bin Laden.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Bin Laden was no martyr. He was a mass murderer who offered a message of hate -- an
insistence that Muslims had to take up arms against the West, and that violence against men,
women and children was the only path to change. He rejected democracy and individual rights
for Muslims in favor of violent extremism; his agenda focused on what he could destroy -- not
what he could build.
Bin Laden and his murderous vision won some adherents. But even before his death, al Qaeda
was losing its struggle for relevance, as the overwhelming majority of people saw that the
slaughter of innocents did not answer their cries for a better life. By the time we found bin
Laden, al Qaeda’s agenda had come to be seen by the vast majority of the region as a dead
end, and the people of the Middle East and North Africa had taken their future into their own
hands.
That story of self-determination began six months ago in Tunisia. On December 17th, a young
vendor named Mohammed Bouazizi was devastated when a police officer confiscated his cart.
This was not unique. It’s the same kind of humiliation that takes place every day in many
parts of the world -- the relentless tyranny of governments that deny their citizens dignity.
Only this time, something different happened. After local officials refused to hear his
complaints, this young man, who had never been particularly active in politics, went to the
headquarters of the provincial government, doused himself in fuel, and lit himself on fire.
There are times in the course of history when the actions of ordinary citizens spark
movements for change because they speak to a longing for freedom that has been building up
for years. In America, think of the defiance of those patriots in Boston who refused to pay
taxes to a King, or the dignity of Rosa Parks as she sat courageously in her seat. So it was in
Tunisia, as that vendor’s act of desperation tapped into the frustration felt throughout the
country. Hundreds of protesters took to the streets, then thousands. And in the face of batons
and sometimes bullets, they refused to go home -- day after day, week after week -- until a
dictator of more than two decades finally left power.
The story of this revolution, and the ones that followed, should not have come as a surprise.
The nations of the Middle East and North Africa won their independence long ago, but in too
many places their people did not. In too many countries, power has been concentrated in the
hands of a few. In too many countries, a citizen like that young vendor had nowhere to turn -no honest judiciary to hear his case; no independent media to give him voice; no credible
political party to represent his views; no free and fair election where he could choose his
leader.
And this lack of self-determination -- the chance to make your life what you will -- has applied
to the region’s economy as well. Yes, some nations are blessed with wealth in oil and gas, and
that has led to pockets of prosperity. But in a global economy based on knowledge, based on
innovation, no development strategy can be based solely upon what comes out of the ground.
Nor can people reach their potential when you cannot start a business without paying a bribe.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
In the face of these challenges, too many leaders in the region tried to direct their people’s
grievances elsewhere. The West was blamed as the source of all ills, a half-century after the
end of colonialism. Antagonism toward Israel became the only acceptable outlet for political
expression. Divisions of tribe, ethnicity and religious sect were manipulated as a means of
holding on to power, or taking it away from somebody else.
But the events of the past six months show us that strategies of repression and strategies of
diversion will not work anymore. Satellite television and the Internet provide a window into
the wider world -- a world of astonishing progress in places like India and Indonesia and
Brazil. Cell phones and social networks allow young people to connect and organize like never
before. And so a new generation has emerged. And their voices tell us that change cannot be
denied.
In Cairo, we heard the voice of the young mother who said, “It’s like I can finally breathe
fresh air for the first time.”
In Sanaa, we heard the students who chanted, “The night must come to an end.”
In Benghazi, we heard the engineer who said, “Our words are free now. It’s a feeling you can’t
explain.”
In Damascus, we heard the young man who said, “After the first yelling, the first shout, you
feel dignity.”
Those shouts of human dignity are being heard across the region. And through the moral
force of nonviolence, the people of the region have achieved more change in six months than
terrorists have accomplished in decades.
Of course, change of this magnitude does not come easily. In our day and age -- a time of 24hour news cycles and constant communication -- people expect the transformation of the
region to be resolved in a matter of weeks. But it will be years before this story reaches its
end. Along the way, there will be good days and there will bad days. In some places, change
will be swift; in others, gradual. And as we’ve already seen, calls for change may give way, in
some cases, to fierce contests for power.
The question before us is what role America will play as this story unfolds. For decades, the
United States has pursued a set of core interests in the region: countering terrorism and
stopping the spread of nuclear weapons; securing the free flow of commerce and safeguarding the security of the region; standing up for Israel’s security and pursuing Arab-Israeli
peace.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We will continue to do these things, with the firm belief that America’s interests are not hostile
to people’s hopes; they’re essential to them. We believe that no one benefits from a nuclear
arms race in the region, or al Qaeda’s brutal attacks. We believe people everywhere would see
their economies crippled by a cut-off in energy supplies. As we did in the Gulf War, we will not
tolerate aggression across borders, and we will keep our commitments to friends and
partners.
Yet we must acknowledge that a strategy based solely upon the narrow pursuit of these
interests will not fill an empty stomach or allow someone to speak their mind. Moreover,
failure to speak to the broader aspirations of ordinary people will only feed the suspicion that
has festered for years that the United States pursues our interests at their expense. Given
that this mistrust runs both ways -- as Americans have been seared by hostage-taking and
violent rhetoric and terrorist attacks that have killed thousands of our citizens -- a failure to
change our approach threatens a deepening spiral of division between the United States and
the Arab world.
And that’s why, two years ago in Cairo, I began to broaden our engagement based upon
mutual interests and mutual respect. I believed then -- and I believe now -- that we have a
stake not just in the stability of nations, but in the self-determination of individuals. The
status quo is not sustainable. Societies held together by fear and repression may offer the
illusion of stability for a time, but they are built upon fault lines that will eventually tear
asunder.
So we face a historic opportunity. We have the chance to show that America values the
dignity of the street vendor in Tunisia more than the raw power of the dictator. There must be
no doubt that the United States of America welcomes change that advances selfdetermination and opportunity. Yes, there will be perils that accompany this moment of
promise. But after decades of accepting the world as it is in the region, we have a chance to
pursue the world as it should be.
Of course, as we do, we must proceed with a sense of humility. It’s not America that put
people into the streets of Tunis or Cairo -- it was the people themselves who launched these
movements, and it’s the people themselves that must ultimately determine their outcome.
Not every country will follow our particular form of representative democracy, and there will
be times when our short-term interests don’t align perfectly with our long-term vision for the
region. But we can, and we will, speak out for a set of core principles -- principles that have
guided our response to the events over the past six months: The United States opposes the
use of violence and repression against the people of the region.
The United States supports a set of universal rights. And these rights include free speech, the
freedom of peaceful assembly, the freedom of religion, equality for men and women under the
rule of law, and the right to choose your own leaders -- whether you live in Baghdad or
Damascus, Sanaa or Tehran.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And we support political and economic reform in the Middle East and North Africa that can
meet the legitimate aspirations of ordinary people throughout the region. Our support for
these principles is not a secondary interest. Today I want to make it clear that it is a top
priority that must be translated into concrete actions, and supported by all of the diplomatic,
economic and strategic tools at our disposal.
Let me be specific. First, it will be the policy of the United States to promote reform across the
region, and to support transitions to democracy. That effort begins in Egypt and Tunisia,
where the stakes are high -- as Tunisia was at the vanguard of this democratic wave, and
Egypt is both a longstanding partner and the Arab world’s largest nation. Both nations can set
a strong example through free and fair elections, a vibrant civil society, accountable and
effective democratic institutions, and responsible regional leadership. But our support must
also extend to nations where transitions have yet to take place.
Unfortunately, in too many countries, calls for change have thus far been answered by
violence. The most extreme example is Libya, where Muammar Qaddafi launched a war
against his own people, promising to hunt them down like rats. As I said when the United
States joined an international coalition to intervene, we cannot prevent every injustice
perpetrated by a regime against its people, and we have learned from our experience in Iraq
just how costly and difficult it is to try to impose regime change by force -- no matter how
well-intentioned it may be.
But in Libya, we saw the prospect of imminent massacre, we had a mandate for action, and
heard the Libyan people’s call for help. Had we not acted along with our NATO allies and
regional coalition partners, thousands would have been killed. The message would have been
clear: Keep power by killing as many people as it takes. Now, time is working against Qaddafi.
He does not have control over his country. The opposition has organized a legitimate and
credible Interim Council. And when Qaddafi inevitably leaves or is forced from power, decades
of provocation will come to an end, and the transition to a democratic Libya can proceed.
While Libya has faced violence on the greatest scale, it’s not the only place where leaders
have turned to repression to remain in power. Most recently, the Syrian regime has chosen
the path of murder and the mass arrests of its citizens. The United States has condemned
these actions, and working with the international community we have stepped up our
sanctions on the Syrian regime -- including sanctions announced yesterday on President Assad
and those around him.
The Syrian people have shown their courage in demanding a transition to democracy.
President Assad now has a choice: He can lead that transition, or get out of the way. The
Syrian government must stop shooting demonstrators and allow peaceful protests. It must
release political prisoners and stop unjust arrests. It must allow human rights monitors to
have access to cities like Dara’a; and start a serious dialogue to advance a democratic
transition. Otherwise, President Assad and his regime will continue to be challenged from
within and will continue to be isolated abroad.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
So far, Syria has followed its Iranian ally, seeking assistance from Tehran in the tactics of
suppression. And this speaks to the hypocrisy of the Iranian regime, which says it stand for
the rights of protesters abroad, yet represses its own people at home. Let’s remember that
the first peaceful protests in the region were in the streets of Tehran, where the government
brutalized women and men, and threw innocent people into jail. We still hear the chants echo
from the rooftops of Tehran. The image of a young woman dying in the streets is still seared
in our memory. And we will continue to insist that the Iranian people deserve their universal
rights, and a government that does not smother their aspirations.
Now, our opposition to Iran’s intolerance and Iran’s repressive measures, as well as its illicit
nuclear program and its support of terror, is well known. But if America is to be credible, we
must acknowledge that at times our friends in the region have not all reacted to the demands
for consistent change -- with change that’s consistent with the principles that I’ve outlined
today. That’s true in Yemen, where President Saleh needs to follow through on his
commitment to transfer power. And that’s true today in Bahrain.
Bahrain is a longstanding partner, and we are committed to its security. We recognize that
Iran has tried to take advantage of the turmoil there, and that the Bahraini government has a
legitimate interest in the rule of law.
Nevertheless, we have insisted both publicly and privately that mass arrests and brute force
are at odds with the universal rights of Bahrain’s citizens, and we will -- and such steps will
not make legitimate calls for reform go away. The only way forward is for the government and
opposition to engage in a dialogue, and you can’t have a real dialogue when parts of the
peaceful opposition are in jail. The government must create the conditions for dialogue, and
the opposition must participate to forge a just future for all Bahrainis.
Indeed, one of the broader lessons to be drawn from this period is that sectarian divides need
not lead to conflict. In Iraq, we see the promise of a multiethnic, multi-sectarian democracy.
The Iraqi people have rejected the perils of political violence in favor of a democratic process,
even as they’ve taken full responsibility for their own security. Of course, like all new
democracies, they will face setbacks. But Iraq is poised to play a key role in the region if it
continues its peaceful progress. And as they do, we will be proud to stand with them as a
steadfast partner.
So in the months ahead, America must use all our influence to encourage reform in the
region. Even as we acknowledge that each country is different, we need to speak honestly
about the principles that we believe in, with friend and foe alike. Our message is simple: If
you take the risks that reform entails, you will have the full support of the United States.
We must also build on our efforts to broaden our engagement beyond elites, so that we reach
the people who will shape the future -- particularly young people.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
We will continue to make good on the commitments that I made in Cairo -- to build networks
of entrepreneurs and expand exchanges in education, to foster cooperation in science and
technology, and combat disease. Across the region, we intend to provide assistance to civil
society, including those that may not be officially sanctioned, and who speak uncomfortable
truths. And we will use the technology to connect with -- and listen to -- the voices of the
people.
For the fact is, real reform does not come at the ballot box alone. Through our efforts we must
support those basic rights to speak your mind and access information. We will support open
access to the Internet, and the right of journalists to be heard -- whether it’s a big news
organization or a lone blogger. In the 21st century, information is power, the truth cannot be
hidden, and the legitimacy of governments will ultimately depend on active and informed
citizens.
Such open discourse is important even if what is said does not square with our worldview. Let
me be clear, America respects the right of all peaceful and law-abiding voices to be heard,
even if we disagree with them. And sometimes we profoundly disagree with them.
We look forward to working with all who embrace genuine and inclusive democracy. What we
will oppose is an attempt by any group to restrict the rights of others, and to hold power
through coercion and not consent. Because democracy depends not only on elections, but also
strong and accountable institutions, and the respect for the rights of minorities.
Such tolerance is particularly important when it comes to religion. In Tahrir Square, we heard
Egyptians from all walks of life chant, “Muslims, Christians, we are one.” America will work to
see that this spirit prevails -- that all faiths are respected, and that bridges are built among
them. In a region that was the birthplace of three world religions, intolerance can lead only to
suffering and stagnation. And for this season of change to succeed, Coptic Christians must
have the right to worship freely in Cairo, just as Shia must never have their mosques
destroyed in Bahrain.
What is true for religious minorities is also true when it comes to the rights of women. History
shows that countries are more prosperous and more peaceful when women are empowered.
And that’s why we will continue to insist that universal rights apply to women as well as men - by focusing assistance on child and maternal health; by helping women to teach, or start a
business; by standing up for the right of women to have their voices heard, and to run for
office. The region will never reach its full potential when more than half of its population is
prevented from achieving their full potential.
Now, even as we promote political reform, even as we promote human rights in the region,
our efforts can’t stop there. So the second way that we must support positive change in the
region is through our efforts to advance economic development for nations that are
transitioning to democracy.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
After all, politics alone has not put protesters into the streets. The tipping point for so many
people is the more constant concern of putting food on the table and providing for a family.
Too many people in the region wake up with few expectations other than making it through
the day, perhaps hoping that their luck will change. Throughout the region, many young
people have a solid education, but closed economies leave them unable to find a job.
Entrepreneurs are brimming with ideas, but corruption leaves them unable to profit from
those ideas.
The greatest untapped resource in the Middle East and North Africa is the talent of its people.
In the recent protests, we see that talent on display, as people harness technology to move
the world. It’s no coincidence that one of the leaders of Tahrir Square was an executive for
Google. That energy now needs to be channeled, in country after country, so that economic
growth can solidify the accomplishments of the street. For just as democratic revolutions can
be triggered by a lack of individual opportunity, successful democratic transitions depend upon
an expansion of growth and broad-based prosperity.
So, drawing from what we’ve learned around the world, we think it’s important to focus on
trade, not just aid; on investment, not just assistance. The goal must be a model in which
protectionism gives way to openness, the reigns of commerce pass from the few to the many,
and the economy generates jobs for the young. America’s support for democracy will
therefore be based on ensuring financial stability, promoting reform, and integrating
competitive markets with each other and the global economy. And we’re going to start with
Tunisia and Egypt.
First, we’ve asked the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund to present a plan at
next week’s G8 summit for what needs to be done to stabilize and modernize the economies
of Tunisia and Egypt. Together, we must help them recover from the disruptions of their
democratic upheaval, and support the governments that will be elected later this year. And we
are urging other countries to help Egypt and Tunisia meet its near-term financial needs.
Second, we do not want a democratic Egypt to be saddled by the debts of its past. So we will
relieve a democratic Egypt of up to 1 billion dollars in debt, and work with our Egyptian
partners to invest these resources to foster growth and entrepreneurship. We will help Egypt
regain access to markets by guaranteeing $1 billion in borrowing that is needed to finance
infrastructure and job creation. And we will help newly democratic governments recover
assets that were stolen.
Third, we’re working with Congress to create Enterprise Funds to invest in Tunisia and Egypt.
And these will be modeled on funds that supported the transitions in Eastern Europe after the
fall of the Berlin Wall. OPIC will soon launch a 2 billion dollars facility to support private
investment across the region. And we will work with the allies to refocus the European Bank
for Reconstruction and Development so that it provides the same support for democratic
transitions and economic modernization in the Middle East and North Africa as it has in
Europe.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Fourth, the United States will launch a comprehensive Trade and Investment Partnership
Initiative in the Middle East and North Africa. If you take out oil exports, this entire region of
over 400 million people exports roughly the same amount as Switzerland. So we will work
with the EU to facilitate more trade within the region, build on existing agreements to promote
integration with U.S. and European markets, and open the door for those countries who adopt
high standards of reform and trade liberalization to construct a regional trade arrangement.
And just as EU membership served as an incentive for reform in Europe, so should the vision
of a modern and prosperous economy create a powerful force for reform in the Middle East
and North Africa.
Prosperity also requires tearing down walls that stand in the way of progress -- the corruption
of elites who steal from their people; the red tape that stops an idea from becoming a
business; the patronage that distributes wealth based on tribe or sect. We will help
governments meet international obligations, and invest efforts at anti-corruption -- by working
with parliamentarians who are developing reforms, and activists who use technology to
increase transparency and hold government accountable. Politics and human rights; economic
reform.
Let me conclude by talking about another cornerstone of our approach to the region, and that
relates to the pursuit of peace.
For decades, the conflict between Israelis and Arabs has cast a shadow over the region. For
Israelis, it has meant living with the fear that their children could be blown up on a bus or by
rockets fired at their homes, as well as the pain of knowing that other children in the region
are taught to hate them. For Palestinians, it has meant suffering the humiliation of occupation,
and never living in a nation of their own. Moreover, this conflict has come with a larger cost to
the Middle East, as it impedes partnerships that could bring greater security and prosperity
and empowerment to ordinary people.
For over two years, my administration has worked with the parties and the international
community to end this conflict, building on decades of work by previous administrations. Yet
expectations have gone unmet. Israeli settlement activity continues. Palestinians have walked
away from talks. The world looks at a conflict that has grinded on and on and on, and sees
nothing but stalemate. Indeed, there are those who argue that with all the change and
uncertainty in the region, it is simply not possible to move forward now.
I disagree. At a time when the people of the Middle East and North Africa are casting off the
burdens of the past, the drive for a lasting peace that ends the conflict and resolves all claims
is more urgent than ever. That’s certainly true for the two parties involved.
For the Palestinians, efforts to delegitimize Israel will end in failure. Symbolic actions to isolate
Israel at the United Nations in September won’t create an independent state. Palestinian
leaders will not achieve peace or prosperity if Hamas insists on a path of terror and rejection.
And Palestinians will never realize their independence by denying the right of Israel to exist.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
As for Israel, our friendship is rooted deeply in a shared history and shared values. Our
commitment to Israel’s security is unshakeable. And we will stand against attempts to single it
out for criticism in international forums. But precisely because of our friendship, it’s important
that we tell the truth: The status quo is unsustainable, and Israel too must act boldly to
advance a lasting peace.
The fact is, a growing number of Palestinians live west of the Jordan River. Technology will
make it harder for Israel to defend itself. A region undergoing profound change will lead to
populism in which millions of people -- not just one or two leaders -- must believe peace is
possible. The international community is tired of an endless process that never produces an
outcome. The dream of a Jewish and democratic state cannot be fulfilled with permanent
occupation.
Now, ultimately, it is up to the Israelis and Palestinians to take action. No peace can be
imposed upon them -- not by the United States; not by anybody else. But endless delay won’t
make the problem go away. What America and the international community can do is to state
frankly what everyone knows -- a lasting peace will involve two states for two peoples: Israel
as a Jewish state and the homeland for the Jewish people, and the state of Palestine as the
homeland for the Palestinian people, each state enjoying self-determination, mutual
recognition, and peace.
So while the core issues of the conflict must be negotiated, the basis of those negotiations is
clear: a viable Palestine, a secure Israel. The United States believes that negotiations should
result in two states, with permanent Palestinian borders with Israel, Jordan, and Egypt, and
permanent Israeli borders with Palestine. We believe the borders of Israel and Palestine
should be based on the 1967 lines with mutually agreed swaps, so that secure and recognized
borders are established for both states. The Palestinian people must have the right to govern
themselves, and reach their full potential, in a sovereign and contiguous state.
As for security, every state has the right to self-defense, and Israel must be able to defend
itself -- by itself -- against any threat. Provisions must also be robust enough to prevent a
resurgence of terrorism, to stop the infiltration of weapons, and to provide effective border
security. The full and phased withdrawal of Israeli military forces should be coordinated with
the assumption of Palestinian security responsibility in a sovereign, non-militarized state. And
the duration of this transition period must be agreed, and the effectiveness of security
arrangements must be demonstrated.
These principles provide a foundation for negotiations. Palestinians should know the territorial
outlines of their state; Israelis should know that their basic security concerns will be met. I’m
aware that these steps alone will not resolve the conflict, because two wrenching and
emotional issues will remain: the future of Jerusalem, and the fate of Palestinian refugees. But
moving forward now on the basis of territory and security provides a foundation to resolve
those two issues in a way that is just and fair, and that respects the rights and aspirations of
both Israelis and Palestinians.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, let me say this: Recognizing that negotiations need to begin with the issues of territory
and security does not mean that it will be easy to come back to the table. In particular, the
recent announcement of an agreement between Fatah and Hamas raises profound and
legitimate questions for Israel: How can one negotiate with a party that has shown itself
unwilling to recognize your right to exist? And in the weeks and months to come, Palestinian
leaders will have to provide a credible answer to that question. Meanwhile, the United States,
our Quartet partners, and the Arab states will need to continue every effort to get beyond the
current impasse.
I recognize how hard this will be. Suspicion and hostility has been passed on for generations,
and at times it has hardened. But I’m convinced that the majority of Israelis and Palestinians
would rather look to the future than be trapped in the past. We see that spirit in the Israeli
father whose son was killed by Hamas, who helped start an organization that brought together
Israelis and Palestinians who had lost loved ones. That father said, “I gradually realized that
the only hope for progress was to recognize the face of the conflict.” We see it in the actions
of a Palestinian who lost three daughters to Israeli shells in Gaza. “I have the right to feel
angry,” he said. “So many people were expecting me to hate. My answer to them is I shall not
hate. Let us hope,” he said, “for tomorrow.”
That is the choice that must be made -- not simply in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, but
across the entire region -- a choice between hate and hope; between the shackles of the past
and the promise of the future. It’s a choice that must be made by leaders and by the people,
and it’s a choice that will define the future of a region that served as the cradle of civilization
and a crucible of strife.
For all the challenges that lie ahead, we see many reasons to be hopeful. In Egypt, we see it
in the efforts of young people who led protests. In Syria, we see it in the courage of those
who brave bullets while chanting, “peaceful, peaceful.” In Benghazi, a city threatened with
destruction, we see it in the courthouse square where people gather to celebrate the freedoms
that they had never known. Across the region, those rights that we take for granted are being
claimed with joy by those who are prying loose the grip of an iron fist.
For the American people, the scenes of upheaval in the region may be unsettling, but the
forces driving it are not unfamiliar. Our own nation was founded through a rebellion against an
empire. Our people fought a painful Civil War that extended freedom and dignity to those who
were enslaved. And I would not be standing here today unless past generations turned to the
moral force of nonviolence as a way to perfect our union -- organizing, marching, protesting
peacefully together to make real those words that declared our nation: “We hold these truths
to be self-evident, that all men are created equal.”
Those words must guide our response to the change that is transforming the Middle East and
North Africa -- words which tell us that repression will fail, and that tyrants will fall, and that
every man and woman is endowed with certain inalienable rights.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
It will not be easy. There’s no straight line to progress, and hardship always accompanies a
season of hope. But the United States of America was founded on the belief that people
should govern themselves. And now we cannot hesitate to stand squarely on the side of those
who are reaching for their rights, knowing that their success will bring about a world that is
more peaceful, more stable, and more just.
Thank you very much, everybody. Thank you.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 12
</doc>
<doc id="file32329861" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Midterm_Elections_Presser_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Midterm%20Elections%20Presser%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Press Conference Following 2010 Congressional Elections
delivered 3 November 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. Last night I had a chance to speak to the leaders of the House
and the Senate and reached out to those who had both won and lost in both parties. I told
John Boehner and Mitch McConnell that I look forward to working with them. And I thanked
Nancy Pelosi and Harry Reid for their extraordinary leadership over the last two years.
After what I'm sure was a long night for a lot of you -- and needless to say it was for me -- I
can tell you that some election nights are more fun than others. Some are exhilarating; some
are humbling. But every election, regardless of who wins and who loses, is a reminder that in
our democracy, power rests not with those of us in elected office, but with the people we have
the privilege to serve.
Over the last few months I've had the opportunity to travel around the country and meet
people where they live and where they work, from backyards to factory floors. I did some
talking, but mostly I did a lot of listening. And yesterday’s vote confirmed what I've heard
from folks all across America: People are frustrated -- they’re deeply frustrated -- with the
pace of our economic recovery and the opportunities that they hope for their children and
their grandchildren. They want jobs to come back faster, they want paychecks to go further,
and they want the ability to give their children the same chances and opportunities as they’ve
had in life.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
The men and women who sent us here don't expect Washington to solve all their problems.
But they do expect Washington to work for them, not against them. They want to know that
their tax dollars are being spent wisely, not wasted, and that we're not going to leave our
children a legacy of debt. They want to know that their voices aren’t being drowned out by a
sea of lobbyists and special interests and partisan bickering. They want business to be done
here openly and honestly.
Now, I ran for this office to tackle these challenges and give voice to the concerns of everyday
people. Over the last two years, we’ve made progress. But, clearly, too many Americans
haven’t felt that progress yet, and they told us that yesterday. And as President, I take
responsibility for that.
What yesterday also told us is that no one party will be able to dictate where we go from here,
that we must find common ground in order to set -- in order to make progress on some
uncommonly difficult challenges. And I told John Boehner and Mitch McConnell last night I am
very eager to sit down with members of both parties and figure out how we can move forward
together.
I’m not suggesting this will be easy. I won’t pretend that we will be able to bridge every
difference or solve every disagreement. There’s a reason we have two parties in this country,
and both Democrats and Republicans have certain beliefs and certain principles that each feels
cannot be compromised. But what I think the American people are expecting, and what we
owe them, is to focus on those issues that affect their jobs, their security, and their future:
reducing our deficit, promoting a clean energy economy, making sure that our children are the
best educated in the world, making sure that we’re making the investments in technology that
will allow us to keep our competitive edge in the global economy.
Because the most important contest we face is not the contest between Democrats and
Republicans. In this century, the most important competition we face is between America and
our economic competitors around the world. To win that competition, and to continue our
economic leadership, we’re going to need to be strong and we’re going to need to be united.
None of the challenges we face lend themselves to simple solutions or bumper-sticker
slogans. Nor are the answers found in any one particular philosophy or ideology. As I’ve said
before, no person, no party, has a monopoly on wisdom. And that’s why I’m eager to hear
good ideas wherever they come from, whoever proposes them. And that’s why I believe it’s
important to have an honest and civil debate about the choices that we face. That’s why I
want to engage both Democrats and Republicans in serious conversations about where we’re
going as a nation.
And with so much at stake, what the American people don’t want from us, especially here in
Washington, is to spend the next two years refighting the political battles of the last two. We
just had a tough election. We will have another in 2012.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
I’m not so naïve as to think that everybody will put politics aside until then, but I do hope to
make progress on the very serious problems facing us right now. And that’s going to require
all of us, including me, to work harder at building consensus.
You know, a little over a month ago, we held a town hall meeting in Richmond, Virginia. And
one of the most telling questions came from a small business owner who runs a tree care
firm. He told me how hard he works and how busy he was; how he doesn’t have time to pay
attention to all the back-and-forth in Washington. And he asked, is there hope for us
returning to civility in our discourse, to a healthy legislative process, so as I strap on the boots
again tomorrow, I know that you guys got it under control? It’s hard to have a faith in that
right now, he said.
I do believe there is hope for civility. I do believe there’s hope for progress. And that’s
because I believe in the resiliency of a nation that’s bounced back from much worse than what
we’re going through right now -- a nation that's overcome war and depression, that has been
made more perfect in our struggle for individual rights and individual freedoms.
Each time progress has come slowly and even painfully, but progress has always come -because we’ve worked at it and because we’ve believed in it, and most of all, because we
remembered that our first allegiance as citizens is not to party or region or faction, but to
country -- because while we may be proud Democrats or proud Republicans, we are prouder
to be Americans.
And that's something that we all need to remember right now and in the coming months. And
if we do, I have no doubt that we will continue this nation’s long journey towards a better
future.
So with that, let me take some questions. I’m going to start off with Ben Feller at AP.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. Are you willing to concede at all that what happened
last night was not just an expression of frustration about the economy, but a fundamental
rejection of your agenda? And given the results, who do you think speaks to the true voice of
the American people right now: you or John Boehner?
President Obama: I think that there is no doubt that people’s number-one concern is the
economy. And what they were expressing great frustration about is the fact that we haven’t
made enough progress on the economy. We’ve stabilized the economy. We’ve got job growth
in the private sectors. But people all across America aren’t feeling that progress. They don't
see it. And they understand that I’m the President of the United States, and that my core
responsibility is making sure that we’ve got an economy that's growing, a middle class that
feels secure, that jobs are being created. And so I think I've got to take direct responsibility
for the fact that we have not made as much progress as we need to make.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, moving forward, I think the question is going to be can Democrats and Republicans sit
down together and come up with a set of ideas that address those core concerns. I'm
confident that we can.
I think that there are some areas where it’s going to be very difficult for us to agree on, but I
think there are going to be a whole bunch of areas where we can agree on. I don’t think
there’s anybody in America who thinks that we’ve got an energy policy that works the way it
needs to; that thinks that we shouldn’t be working on energy independence. And that gives
opportunities for Democrats and Republicans to come together and think about, whether it’s
natural gas or energy efficiency or how we can build electric cars in this country, how do we
move forward on that agenda.
I think everybody in this country thinks that we’ve got to make sure our kids are equipped in
terms of their education, their science background, their math backgrounds, to compete in
this new global economy. And that’s going to be an area where I think there’s potential
common ground.
So on a whole range of issues, there are going to be areas where we disagree. I think the
overwhelming message that I hear from the voters is that we want everybody to act
responsibly in Washington. We want you to work harder to arrive at consensus. We want you
to focus completely on jobs and the economy and growing it, so that we’re ensuring a better
future for our children and our grandchildren.
And I think that there’s no doubt that as I reflect on the results of the election, it underscores
for me that I've got to do a better job, just like everybody else in Washington does.
Question: [Inaudible.]
President Obama: Well, I think John Boehner and I and Mitch McConnell and Harry Reid and
Nancy Pelosi are going to have to sit down and work together -- because I suspect that if you
talk to any individual voter yesterday, they’d say, there are some things I agree with
Democrats on, there are some things I agree with Republicans on. I don’t think people carry
around with them a fixed ideology. I think the majority of people, they’re going about their
business, going about their lives. They just want to make sure that we’re making progress.
And that’s going to be my top priority over the next couple of years.
Savannah Guthrie.
Question: Just following up on what Ben just talked about, you don’t seem to be reflecting
or second-guessing any of the policy decisions you’ve made, instead saying the message the
voters were sending was about frustration with the economy or maybe even chalking it up to
a failure on your part to communicate effectively. If you’re not reflecting on your policy
agenda, is it possible voters can conclude you’re still not getting it?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, Savannah, that was just the first question, so we’re going to have a
few more here. I’m doing a whole lot of reflecting and I think that there are going to be areas
in policy where we’re going to have to do a better job. I think that over the last two years, we
have made a series of very tough decisions, but decisions that were right in terms of moving
the country forward in an emergency situation where we had the risk of slipping into a second
Great Depression.
But what is absolutely true is that with all that stuff coming at folks fast and furious -- a
recovery package, what we had to do with respect to the banks, what we had to do with
respect to the auto companies -- I think people started looking at all this and it felt as if
government was getting much more intrusive into people’s lives than they were accustomed
to.
Now, the reason was it was an emergency situation. But I think it’s understandable that folks
said to themselves, you know, maybe this is the agenda, as opposed to a response to an
emergency. And that’s something that I think everybody in the White House understood was
a danger. We thought it was necessary, but I’m sympathetic to folks who looked at it and
said this is looking like potential overreach.
In addition, there were a bunch of price tags that went with that. And so, even though these
were emergency situations, people rightly said, gosh, we already have all this debt, we
already have these big deficits; this is potentially going to compound it, and at what point are
we going to get back to a situation where we’re doing what families all around the country do,
which is make sure that if you spend something you know how to pay for it -- as opposed to
racking up the credit card for the next generation.
And I think that the other thing that happened is that when I won election in 2008, one of the
reasons I think that people were excited about the campaign was the prospect that we would
change how business is done in Washington. And we were in such a hurry to get things done
that we didn’t change how things got done. And I think that frustrated people.
I’m a strong believer that the earmarking process in Congress isn’t what the American people
really want to see when it comes to making tough decisions about how taxpayer dollars are
spent. And I, in the rush to get things done, had to sign a bunch of bills that had earmarks in
them, which was contrary to what I had talked about. And I think folks look at that and they
said, gosh, this feels like the same partisan squabbling, this seems like the same ways of
doing business as happened before.
And so one of the things that I’ve got to take responsibility for is not having moved enough on
those fronts. And I think there is an opportunity to move forward on some of those issues.
My understanding is Eric Cantor today said that he wanted to see a moratorium on earmarks
continuing. That’s something I think we can -- we can work on together.
Question: Would you still resist the notion that voters rejected the policy choices you made?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, Savannah, I think that what I think is absolutely true is voters are
not satisfied with the outcomes. If right now we had 5 percent unemployment instead of 9.6
percent unemployment, then people would have more confidence in those policy choices. The
fact is, is that for most folks, proof of whether they work or not is has the economy gotten
back to where it needs to be. And it hasn’t.
And so my job is to make sure that I’m looking at all ideas that are on the table. When it
comes to job creation, if Republicans have good ideas for job growth that can drive down the
unemployment rate, and we haven’t thought of them, we haven’t looked at them but we think
they have a chance of working, we want to try some.
So on the policy front, I think the most important thing is to say that we’re not going to rule
out ideas because they’re Democrat or Republican; we want to just see what works. And
ultimately, I’ll be judged as President as to the bottom line, results.
Mike Emanuel.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. Health care -- as you’re well aware, obviously, a lot of
Republicans ran against your health care law. Some have called for repealing the law. I’m
wondering, sir, if you believe that health care reform that you worked so hard on is in danger
at this point, and whether there’s a threat, as a result of this election.
President Obama: Well, I know that there’s some Republican candidates who won last night
who feel very strongly about it. I’m sure that this will be an issue that comes up in
discussions with the Republican leadership. As I said before, though, I think we’d be
misreading the election if we thought that the American people want to see us for the next
two years relitigate arguments that we had over the last two years.
With respect to the health care law, generally -- and this may go to some of the questions
that Savannah was raising -- you know, when I talk to a woman from New Hampshire who
doesn’t have to mortgage her house because she got cancer and is seeking treatment but now
is able to get health insurance, when I talk to parents who are relieved that their child with a
preexisting condition can now stay on their policy until they’re 26 years old and give them
time to transition to find a job that will give them health insurance, or the small businesses
that are now taking advantage of the tax credits that are provided -- then I say to myself, this
was the right thing to do.
Now, if the Republicans have ideas for how to improve our health care system, if they want to
suggest modifications that would deliver faster and more effective reform to a health care
system that has been wildly expensive for too many families and businesses and certainly for
our federal government, I’m happy to consider some of those ideas.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
You know, for example, I know one of the things that’s come up is that the 1099 provision in
the health care bill appears to be too burdensome for small businesses. It just involves too
much paperwork, too much filing. It’s probably counterproductive. It was designed to make
sure that revenue was raised to help pay for some of the other provisions, but if it ends up
just being so much trouble that small businesses find it difficult to manage, that's something
that we should take a look at.
So there are going to be examples where I think we can tweak and make improvements on
the progress that we’ve made. That's true for any significant piece of legislation.
But I don't think that if you ask the American people, should we stop trying to close the
doughnut hole that will help senior citizens get prescription drugs, should we go back to a
situation where people with preexisting conditions can’t get health insurance, should we allow
insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick even though you’ve been
paying premiums -- I don't think that you’d have a strong vote for people saying those are
provisions I want to eliminate.
Question: According to some exit polls, sir, about one out of two voters apparently said that
they would like to either see it overturned or repealed. Are you concerned that that may
embolden voters who are from the other party perhaps?
President Obama: Well, it also means one out of two voters think it was the right thing to
do. And obviously this is an issue that has been contentious. But as I said, I think what's
going to be useful is for us to go through the issues that Republicans have issues on -- not
sort of talking generally, but let’s talk specifics. Does this particular provision -- when it
comes to preexisting conditions, is this something you’re for or you’re against? Helping
seniors get their prescription drugs -- does that make sense or not?
And if we take that approach -- which is different from campaigning -- I mean, this is now
governing -- then I think that we can continue to make some progress and find some common
ground.
Chip Reid.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. Republicans say more than anything else what this
election was about was spending. And they say it will be when hell freezes over that they will
accept anything remotely like a stimulus bill or any kind of a proposal you have out there to
stimulate job growth through spending. Do you accept the fact that any kind of spending to
create jobs is dead at this point? And if so, what else can government do to create jobs,
which is the number one issue?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Well, I think this is going to be an important question for Democrats and
Republicans. I think the American people are absolutely concerned about spending and debt -and deficits. And I’m going to have a deficit commission that is putting forward its ideas. It’s
a bipartisan group that includes Republican and Democratic members of Congress. Hopefully
they were able to arrive at some consensus on some areas where we can eliminate programs
that don’t work, cut back on government spending that is inefficient, can streamline
government, but isn’t cutting into the core investments that are going to make sure that we
are a competitive economy that is growing and providing opportunity for years to come.
So the question I think that my Republican friends and me and Democratic leaders are going
to have answer is, what are our priorities? What do we care about? And that’s going to be a
tough debate, because there are some tough choices here.
We already had a big deficit that I inherited, and that has been made worse because of the
recession. As we bring it down, I want to make sure that we’re not cutting into education that
is going to help define whether or not we can compete around the world. I don’t think we
should be cutting back on research and development, because if we can develop new
technologies in areas like clean energy, that could make all the difference in terms of job
creation here at home.
I think the proposal that I put forward with respect to infrastructure is one that historically
we’ve had bipartisan agreement about. And we should be able to agree now that it makes no
sense for China to have better rail systems than us, and Singapore having better airports than
us. And we just learned that China now has the fastest supercomputer on Earth -- that used
to be us. They’re making investments because they know those investments will pay off over
the long term.
And so in these budget discussions, the key is to be able to distinguish between stuff that isn’t
adding to our growth, isn’t an investment in our future, and those things that are absolutely
necessary for us to be able to increase job growth in the future as well.
Now, the single most important thing I think we need to do economically -- and this is
something that has to be done during the lame duck session -- is making sure that taxes don’t
go up on middle-class families next year. And so we’ve got some work to do on that front to
make sure that families not only aren't seeing a higher tax burden -- which will automatically
happen if Congress doesn’t act -- but also making sure that business provisions that
historically we have extended each year that, for example, provide tax breaks for companies
that are investing here in the United States in research and development, that those are
extended. I think it makes sense for us to extend unemployment insurance because there are
still a lot of folks out there hurting.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
So there are some things that we can do right now that will help sustain the recovery and
advance it, even as we’re also sitting down and figuring out, okay, over the next several years
what kinds of budget cuts can we make that are intelligent, that are smart, that won’t be
undermining our recovery but, in fact, will be encouraging job growth.
Question: But most of those things that you just called investments they call wasteful
spending and they say it’s dead on arrival. It sounds like -- without their support, you can’t
get any of it through.
President Obama: Well, what is absolutely true is, is that without any Republican support
on anything, then it’s going to be hard to get things done. But I’m not going to anticipate that
they’re not going to support anything. I think that part of the message sent to Republicans
was we want to see stronger job growth in this country. And if there are good ideas about
putting people to work that traditionally have garnered Republican support and that don’t add
to the deficit, then my hope is and expectation is, is that that’s something they’re willing to
have a serious conversation about.
When it comes to, for example, the proposal we put forward to accelerate depreciation for
business, so that if they’re building a plant or investing in new equipment next year, that they
can take a complete write-off next year, get a huge tax break next year, and that would then
encourage a lot of businesses to get off the sidelines -- that's not historically considered a
liberal idea. That's actually an idea that business groups and Republicans I think have
supported for a very long time.
So again, the question is going to be do we all come to the table with an open mind and say
to ourselves, what do we think is actually going to make a difference for the American people?
That's how we’re going to be judged over the next couple of years.
Peter Baker.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. After your election two years ago, when you met with
Republicans you said that, in discussing what policies might go forward, that elections have
consequences, and that you pointed out that you had won. I wonder what consequences you
think this election should have then, in terms of your policies. Are there areas that you’re
willing -- can you name today areas that you would be willing to compromise on that you
might not have been willing to compromise on in the past?
President Obama: Well, I think I’ve been willing to compromise in the past and I'm going to
be willing to compromise going forward on a whole range of issues. Let me give you an
example -- the issue of energy that I just mentioned. I think there are a lot of Republicans
that ran against the energy bill that passed in the House last year. And so it’s doubtful that
you could get the votes to pass that through the House this year or next year or the year
after. But that doesn't mean there isn't agreement that we should have a better energy
policy. And so let’s find those areas where we can agree.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
We’ve got, I think, broad agreement that we’ve got terrific natural gas resources in this
country. Are we doing everything we can to develop those? There's a lot of agreement
around the need to make sure that electric cars are developed here in the United States, that
we don't fall behind other countries. Are there things that we can do to encourage that? And
there's already been bipartisan interest on those issues.
There's been discussion about how we can restart our nuclear industry as a means of reducing
our dependence on foreign oil and reducing greenhouse gases. Is that an area where we can
move forward?
We were able, over the last two years, to increase for the first time in 30 years fuel-efficiency
standards on cars and trucks. We didn’t even need legislation. We just needed the
cooperation of automakers and autoworkers and investors and other shareholders. And that's
going to move us forward in a serious way.
So I think when it comes to something like energy, what we’re probably going to have to do is
say here are some areas where there's just too much disagreement between Democrats and
Republicans, we can’t get this done right now, but let’s not wait. Let’s go ahead and start
making some progress on the things that we do agree on, and we can continue to have a
strong and healthy debate about those areas where we don’t.
Question:

Is there anything in the “Pledge to America” that you think you can support?

President Obama: You know, I’m sure there are going to be areas, particularly around, for
example, reforming how Washington works, that I’ll be interested in. I think the American
people want to see more transparency, more openness. As I said, in the midst of economic
crisis, I think one of the things I take responsibility for is not having pushed harder on some
of those issues. And I think if you take Republicans and Democrats at their word this is an
area that they want to deliver on for the American people, I want to be supportive of that
effort.
Jake Tapper.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. I have a policy question and a personal one. The
policy question is, you talked about how the immediate goal is the Bush tax cuts and making
sure that they don’t expire for those who earn under $200,000, $250,000. Republicans
disagree with that strongly. They want all of the Bush tax cuts extended. Are you willing to
compromise on that? Are you willing to negotiate at all, for instance, allow them to expire for
everyone over $1 million? Where are you willing to budge on that? And the second one is,
President Bush when he went through a similar thing came out and he said this was a
“thumpin’.” You talked about how it was humbling, or you alluded to it perhaps being
humbling. And I’m wondering, when you call your friends, like Congressman Perriello or
Governor Strickland, and you see 19 state legislatures go to the other side, governorships in
swing states, the Democratic Party set back, what does it feel like?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: It feels bad. You know, the toughest thing over the last couple of days is
seeing really terrific public servants not have the opportunity to serve anymore, at least in the
short term. And you mentioned -- there are just some terrific members of Congress who took
really tough votes because they thought it was the right thing, even though they knew this
could cause them political problems, and even though a lot of them came from really tough
swing districts or majority-Republican districts. And the amount of courage that they showed
and conviction that they showed is something that I admire so much. I can’t overstate it.
And so there is a not only sadness about seeing them go, but there’s also a lot of questioning
on my part in terms of could I have done something differently or done something more so
that those folks would still be here.
It’s hard. And I take responsibility for it in a lot of ways.
I will tell you, they’ve been incredibly gracious when I have conversations with them. And
what they’ve told me is, you know, we don’t have regrets because I feel like we were doing
the right thing. And they may be just saying that to make me feel better, which, again, is a
sign of their character and their class. And I hope a lot of them continue to pursue public
service because I think they’re terrific public servants.
With respect to the tax cut issue, my goal is to make sure that we don’t have a huge spike in
taxes for middle-class families. Not only would that be a terrible burden on families who are
already going through tough times, it would be bad for our economy. It is very important that
we’re not taking a whole bunch of money out of the system from people who are most likely
to spend that money on goods, services, groceries, buying a new winter coat for the kids.
That’s also why I think unemployment insurance is important. Not only is it the right thing to
do for folks who are still looking for work and struggling in this really tough economy, but it’s
the right thing to do for the economy as a whole.
So my goal is to sit down with Speaker-elect Boehner and Mitch McConnell and Harry and
Nancy sometime in the next few weeks and see where we can move forward in a way that,
first of all, does no harm; that extends those tax cuts that are very important for middle-class
families; also extends those provisions that are important to encourage businesses to invest,
and provide businesses some certainty over the next year or two.
And how that negotiation works itself out I think is too early to say. But this is going to be
one of my top priorities, and my hope is, is that given we all have an interest in growing the
economy and encouraging job growth, that we’re not going to play brinksmanship but instead
we’re going to act responsibly.
Question:

So you’re willing to negotiate?

President Obama: Absolutely.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Laura Meckler.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. You said earlier that it was clear that Congress was
rejecting the idea of a cap-and-trade program, and that you wouldn’t be able to move forward
with that. Looking ahead, do you feel the same way about EPA regulating carbon emissions?
Would you be open to them doing essentially the same thing through an administrative action,
or is that off the table, as well?
And secondly, just to follow up on what you said about changing the way Washington works,
do you think that -- you said you didn’t do enough to change the way things were handled in
this city. Some of -- in order to get your health care bill passed you needed to make some of
those deals. Do you wish, in retrospect, you had not made those deals even if it meant the
collapse of the program?
President Obama: I think that making sure that families had security and were on a
trajectory to lower health care costs was absolutely critical for this country. But you are
absolutely right that when you are navigating through a House and a Senate in this kind of
pretty partisan environment that it’s a ugly mess when it comes to process. And I think that
is something that really affected how people viewed the outcome. That is something that I
regret -- that we couldn’t have made the process more -- healthier than it ended up being.
But I think the outcome was a good one.
With respect to the EPA, I think the smartest thing for us to do is to see if we can get
Democrats and Republicans in a room who are serious about energy independence and are
serious about keeping our air clean and our water clean and dealing with the issue of
greenhouse gases -- and seeing are there ways that we can make progress in the short term
and invest in technologies in the long term that start giving us the tools to reduce greenhouse
gases and solve this problem.
The EPA is under a court order that says greenhouse gases are a pollutant that fall under their
jurisdiction. And I think one of the things that's very important for me is not to have us ignore
the science, but rather to find ways that we can solve these problems that don’t hurt the
economy, that encourage the development of clean energy in this country, that, in fact, may
give us opportunities to create entire new industries and create jobs that -- and that put us in
a competitive posture around the world.
So I think it’s too early to say whether or not we can make some progress on that front. I
think we can. Cap and trade was just one way of skinning the cat; it was not the only way. It
was a means, not an end. And I’m going to be looking for other means to address this
problem.
And I think EPA wants help from the legislature on this. I don’t think that the desire is to
somehow be protective of their powers here. I think what they want to do is make sure that
the issue is being dealt with.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
Ed Henry.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to do a personal and policy one as well. On
personal, you had a lot of fun on the campaign trail by saying that the Republicans were
drinking a Slurpee and sitting on the sidelines while you were trying to pull the car out of the
ditch. But the point of the story was that you said if you want to go forward, you put the car
in “D”; if you want to go backwards, you put it in “R.” Now that there are least 60 House
districts that seem to have rejected that message, is it possible that there are a majority of
Americans who think your policies are taking us in reverse? And what specific changes will
you make to your approach to try to fix that and better connect with the American people?
And just on a policy front, “don’t ask, don’t tell” is something that you promised to end. And
when you had 60 votes and 59 votes in the Senate -- it’s a tough issue -- you haven’t been
able to do it. Do you now have to tell your liberal base that with maybe 52 or 53 votes in the
Senate, you’re just not going to be able to get it done in the next two years?
President Obama: Well, let me take the second issue first. I’ve been a strong believer in
the notion that if somebody is willing to serve in our military, in uniform, putting their lives on
the line for our security, that they should not be prevented from doing so because of their
sexual orientation. And since there’s been a lot of discussion about polls over the last 48
hours, I think it’s worth noting that the overwhelming majority of Americans feel the same
way. It’s the right thing to do.
Now, as Commander-in-Chief, I’ve said that making this change needs to be done in an
orderly fashion. I’ve worked with the Pentagon, worked with Secretary Gates, worked with
Admiral Mullen to make sure that we are looking at this in a systemic way that maintains good
order and discipline, but that we need to change this policy.
There’s going to be a review that comes out at the beginning of the month that will have
surveyed attitudes and opinions within the armed forces. I will expect that Secretary of
Defense Gates and Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Admiral Mullen will have something to
say about that review. I will look at it very carefully. But that will give us time to act in -potentially during the lame duck session to change this policy.
Keep in mind we’ve got a bunch of court cases that are out there as well. And something that
would be very disruptive to good order and discipline and unit cohesion is if we’ve got this
issue bouncing around in the courts, as it already has over the last several weeks, where the
Pentagon and the chain of command doesn’t know at any given time what rules they’re
working under.
We need to provide certainty and it’s time for us to move this policy forward. And this should
not be a partisan issue. This is an issue, as I said, where you’ve got a sizable portion of the
American people squarely behind the notion that folks who are willing to serve on our behalf
should be treated fairly and equally.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, in terms of how we move forward, I think that the American people understand that
we’re still digging our way out of a pretty big mess. So I don’t think anybody denies they
think we’re in a ditch. I just don’t think they feel like we’ve gotten all the way out of the ditch
yet. And to move the analogy forward that I used in the campaign, I think what they want
right now is the Democrats and the Republicans both pushing some more to get the car on
level ground. And we haven’t done that.
If you think I was engaging in too much campaign rhetoric, saying the Republicans were just
sitting on the side of the road, watching us get that car out of the ditch, at the very least we
were pushing in opposite directions. And so -Question: -- the idea that your policies are taking the country in reverse. You just reject
that idea altogether that your policies could be going in reverse?
President Obama: Yes. And I think, look, here’s the bottom line. When I came into office,
this economy was in a freefall, and the economy has stabilized. The economy is growing.
We’ve seen nine months of private sector job growth. So I think it would be hard to argue
that we’re going backwards. I think what you can argue is we’re stuck in neutral. We are not
moving the way we need to, to make sure that folks have the jobs, have the opportunity, are
seeing economic growth in their communities the way they need to. And that's going to
require Democrats and Republicans to come together and look for the best ideas to move
things forward.
It will not be easy, not just because Democrats and Republicans may have different priorities,
as we were just discussing when it came to how we structure tax cuts, but because these
issues are hard.
The Republicans throughout the campaign said they’re very concerned about debt and
deficits. Well, one of the most important things we can do for debt and deficits is economic
growth. So what other proposals do they have to grow the economy? If, in fact, they’re
rejecting some of the proposals I’ve made, I want to hear from them what affirmative policies
can make a difference in terms of encouraging job growth and promoting the economy -because I don't think that tax cuts alone are going to be a recipe for the kind of expansion
that we need.
From 2001 to 2009, we cut taxes pretty significantly, and we just didn’t see the kind of
expansion that is going to be necessary in terms of driving the unemployment rate down
significantly.
So I think what we’re going to need to do and what the American people want is for us to mix
and match ideas, figure out those areas where we can agree on, move forward on those,
disagree without being disagreeable on those areas that we can’t agree on. If we accomplish
that, then there will be time for politics later, but over the next year I think we can solidify
this recovery and give people a little more confidence out there.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
Hans Nichols.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask if you’re going to have John Boehner
over for a Slurpee, but I actually have a serious question.
President Obama: I might serve -- they’re delicious drinks.
Question:

The Slurpee Summit.

President Obama: The Slurpee Summit -- that’s good, Chuck. I like that.
Question: Since you seem to be in a reflective mood, do you think you need to hit the reset
button with business? How do you plan to set that reset button with business? Would that -would you include anything beyond your Cleveland speech, those proposals, to get them off
the sidelines, get them off the cash they’re hoarding and start hiring again? Thank you.
President Obama: Yes, I think this is an important question that we’ve been asking
ourselves for several months now. You’re right, as I reflect on what’s happened over the last
two years, one of the things that I think has not been managed by me as well as it needed to
be was finding the right balance in making sure that businesses have rules of the road and are
treating customers fairly and -- whether it’s their credit cards or insurance or their mortgages
-- but also making absolutely clear that the only way America succeeds is if businesses are
succeeding.
The reason we’ve got a unparalleled standard of living in the history of the world is because
we’ve got a free market that is dynamic and entrepreneurial, and that free market has to be
nurtured and cultivated. And there’s no doubt that when you had the financial crisis on Wall
Street, the bonus controversies, the battle around health care, the battle around financial
reform, and then you had BP -- you just had a successive set of issues in which I think
business took the message that, well, gosh, it seems like we may be always painted at the
bad guy.
And so I’ve got to take responsibility in terms of making sure that I make clear to the
business community as well as to the country that the most important thing we can do is to
boost and encourage our business sector and make sure that they’re hiring. And so we do
have specific plans in terms of how we can structure that outreach.
Now, keep in mind over the last two years, we’ve been talking to CEOs constantly. And as I
plan for my trip later this week to Asia, the whole focus is on how are we going to open up
markets so that American businesses can prosper, and we can sell more goods and create
more jobs here in the United States. And a whole bunch of corporate executives are going to
be joining us so that I can help them open up those markets and allow them to sell their
products.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
So there’s been a lot of strong interaction behind the scenes. But I think setting the right
tone publicly is going to be important and could end up making a difference at the margins in
terms of how businesses make investment decisions.
Question:
hiring?

But do you have new specific proposals to get them off the sidelines and start

President Obama: Well, I already discussed a couple with Chip that haven’t been acted on
yet. You’re right that I made these proposals two months ago, but -- or three months ago -but it was in the midst of a campaign season where it was doubtful that they were going to
get a full hearing, just because there was so much political noise going on.
I think as we move forward, sitting down and talking to businesses, figuring out what exactly
would help you make more investments that could create more jobs here in the United States,
and listening hard to them -- in a context where maybe Democrats and Republicans are
together so we’re receiving the same message at the same time -- and then acting on that
agenda could make a big difference.
Matt Spetalnick of Reuters.
Question: Thank you, Mr. President. How do you respond to those who say the election
outcome, at least in part, was voters saying that they see you as out of touch with their
personal economic pain? And are you willing to make any changes in your leadership style?
President Obama: There is a inherent danger in being in the White House and being in the
bubble. I mean, folks didn’t have any complaints about my leadership style when I was
running around Iowa for a year. And they got a pretty good look at me up close and personal,
and they were able to lift the hood and kick the tires, and I think they understood that my
story was theirs. I might have a funny name, I might have lived in some different places, but
the values of hard work and responsibility and honesty and looking out for one another that
had been instilled in them by their parents, those were the same values that I took from my
mom and my grandparents.
And so the track record has been that when I’m out of this place, that's not an issue. When
you’re in this place, it is hard not to seem removed. And one of the challenges that we’ve got
to think about is how do I meet my responsibilities here in the White House, which require a
lot of hours and a lot of work, but still have that opportunity to engage with the American
people on a day-to-day basis, and know -- give them confidence that I’m listening to them.
Those letters that I read every night, some of them just break my heart. Some of them
provide me encouragement and inspiration. But nobody is filming me reading those letters.
And so it’s hard, I think, for people to get a sense of, well, how is he taking in all this
information?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I think there are more things that we can do to make sure that I’m getting out of here.
But, I mean, I think it’s important to point out as well that a couple of great communicators,
Ronald Reagan and Bill Clinton, were standing at this podium two years into their presidency
getting very similar questions because the economy wasn’t working the way it needed to be
and there were a whole range of factors that made people concerned that maybe the party in
power wasn’t listening to them. This is something that I think every President needs to go
through because the responsibilities of this office are so enormous and so many people are
depending on what we do, and in the rush of activity, sometimes we lose track of the ways
that we connected with folks that got us here in the first place.
And that’s something that -- now, I’m not recommending for every future President that they
take a shellacking like they -- like I did last night. I’m sure there are easier ways to learn
these lessons. But I do think that this is a growth process and an evolution. And the
relationship that I’ve had with the American people is one that built slowly, peaked at this
incredible high, and then during the course of the last two years, as we’ve, together, gone
through some very difficult times, has gotten rockier and tougher. And it’s going to, I’m sure,
have some more ups and downs during the course of me being in this office.
But the one thing that I just want to end on is getting out of here is good for me, too, because
when I travel around the country, even in the toughest of these debates -- in the midst of
health care last year during the summer when there were protesters about, and when I’m
meeting families who’ve lost loved ones in Afghanistan or Iraq -- I always come away from
those interactions just feeling so much more optimistic about this country.
We have such good and decent people who, on a day-to-day basis, are finding all kinds of
ways to live together and educate kids and grow their communities and improve their
communities and create businesses and work together to create great new products and
services. The American people always make me optimistic.
And that’s why, during the course of the last two years, as tough as it’s been, as many
sometimes scary moments as we’ve gone through, I’ve never doubted that we’re going to
emerge stronger than we were before. And I think that remains true, and I’m just going to be
looking forward to playing my part in helping that journey along.
All right? Thank you very much, everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 17
</doc>
<doc id="file32329755" filename="Barack_Obama_-_MLK_Remembrance.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20MLK%20Remembrance.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Martin Luther King, Jr. Remembrance Speech
delivered 17 January 2010, Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, Washington, DC

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning. Praise be to God. Let me begin by thanking the entire Vermont Avenue
Baptist Church family for welcoming our family here today. It feels like a family. Thank you
for making us feel that way. To Pastor Wheeler, first lady Wheeler, thank you so much for
welcoming us here today. Congratulations on Jordan Denice -- aka Cornelia.
Michelle and I have been blessed with a new nephew this year as well -- Austin Lucas
Robinson. So maybe at the appropriate time we can make introductions. Now, if Jordan's
father is like me, then that will be in about 30 years. That is a great blessing.
Michelle and Malia and Sasha and I are thrilled to be here today. And I know that sometimes
you have to go through a little fuss to have me as a guest speaker. So let me apologize in
advance for all the fuss.
We gather here, on a Sabbath, during a time of profound difficulty for our nation and for our
world. In such a time, it soothes the soul to seek out the Divine in a spirit of prayer; to seek
solace among a community of believers. But we are not here just to ask the Lord for His

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
blessing. We aren't here just to interpret His Scripture. We're also here to call on the
memory of one of His noble servants, the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.
Now, it's fitting that we do so here, within the four walls of Vermont Avenue Baptist Church -here, in a church that rose like the phoenix from the ashes of the civil war; here in a church
formed by freed slaves, whose founding pastor had worn the union blue; here in a church
from whose pews congregants set out for marches and from whom choir anthems of freedom
were heard; from whose sanctuary King himself would sermonize from time to time.
One of those times was Thursday, December 6, 1956. Pastor, you said you were a little older
than me, so were you around at that point? You were three years old -- okay. I wasn’t born
yet.
On Thursday, December 6, 1956. And before Dr. King had pointed us to the mountaintop,
before he told us about his dream in front of the Lincoln Memorial, King came here, as a 27year-old preacher, to speak on what he called "The Challenge of a New Age." "The Challenge
of a New Age." It was a period of triumph, but also uncertainty, for Dr. King and his followers
-- because just weeks earlier, the Supreme Court had ordered the desegregation of
Montgomery's buses, a hard-wrought, hard-fought victory that would put an end to the 381day historic boycott down in Montgomery, Alabama.
And yet, as Dr. King rose to take that pulpit, the future still seemed daunting. It wasn't clear
what would come next for the movement that Dr. King led. It wasn't clear how we were going
to reach the Promised Land. Because segregation was still rife; lynchings still a fact. Yes, the
Supreme Court had ruled not only on the Montgomery buses, but also on Brown v. Board of
Education. And yet that ruling was defied throughout the South -- by schools and by states;
they ignored it with impunity. And here in the nation's capital, the federal government had
yet to fully align itself with the laws on its books and the ideals of its founding.
So it's not hard for us, then, to imagine that moment. We can imagine folks coming to this
church, happy about the boycott being over. We can also imagine them, though, coming here
concerned about their future, sometimes second-guessing strategy, maybe fighting off some
creeping doubts, perhaps despairing about whether the movement in which they had placed
so many of their hopes -- a movement in which they believed so deeply -- could actually
deliver on its promise.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So here we are, more than half a century later, once again facing the challenges of a new
age. Here we are, once more marching toward an unknown future, what I call the Joshua
generation to their Moses generation -- the great inheritors of progress paid for with sweat
and blood, and sometimes life itself.
We've inherited the progress of unjust laws that are now overturned. We take for granted the
progress of a ballot being available to anybody who wants to take the time to actually vote.
We enjoy the fruits of prejudice and bigotry being lifted -- slowly, sometimes in fits and starts,
but irrevocably -- from human hearts. It's that progress that made it possible for me to be
here today; for the good people of this country to elect an African American the 44th
President of the United States of America.
Reverend Wheeler mentioned the inauguration, last year's election. You know, on the heels of
that victory over a year ago, there were some who suggested that somehow we had entered
into a post-racial America, all those problems would be solved. There were those who argued
that because I had spoke of a need for unity in this country that our nation was somehow
entering into a period of post-partisanship. That didn’t work out so well. There was a hope
shared by many that life would be better from the moment that I swore that oath.
Of course, as we meet here today, one year later, we know the promise of that moment has
not yet been fully fulfilled. Because of an era of greed and irresponsibility that sowed the
seeds of its own demise, because of persistent economic troubles unaddressed through the
generations, because of a banking crisis that brought the financial system to the brink of
catastrophe, we are being tested -- in our own lives and as a nation -- as few have been
tested before.
Unemployment is at its highest level in more than a quarter of a century. Nowhere is it higher
than the African American community. Poverty is on the rise. Home ownership is slipping.
Beyond our shores, our sons and daughters are fighting two wars. Closer to home, our Haitian
brothers and sisters are in desperate need. Bruised, battered, many people are legitimately
feeling doubt, even despair, about the future. Like those who came to this church on that
Thursday in 1956, folks are wondering, where do we go from here?
I understand those feelings. I understand the frustration and sometimes anger that so many
folks feel as they struggle to stay afloat. I get letters from folks around the country every
day; I read 10 a night out of the 40,000 that we receive. And there are stories of hardship
and desperation, in some cases, pleading for help: I need a job. I'm about to lose my home.
I don't have health care -- it's about to cause my family to be bankrupt. Sometimes you get

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
letters from children: My mama or my daddy have lost their jobs, is there something you can
do to help? Ten letters like that a day we read.
So, yes, we're passing through a hard winter. It's the hardest in some time. But let's always
remember that, as a people, the American people, we've weathered some hard winters
before. This country was founded during some harsh winters. The fishermen, the laborers,
the craftsmen who made camp at Valley Forge -- they weathered a hard winter. The slaves
and the freedmen who rode an underground railroad, seeking the light of justice under the
cover of night -- they weathered a hard winter. The seamstress whose feet were tired, the
pastor whose voice echoes through the ages -- they weathered some hard winters. It was for
them, as it is for us, difficult, in the dead of winter, to sometimes see spring coming. They,
too, sometimes felt their hopes deflate. And yet, each season, the frost melts, the cold
recedes, the sun reappears. So it was for earlier generations and so it will be for us.
What we need to do is to just ask what lessons we can learn from those earlier generations
about how they sustained themselves during those hard winters, how they persevered and
prevailed. Let us in this Joshua generation learn how that Moses generation overcame.
Let me offer a few thoughts on this. First and foremost, they did so by remaining firm in their
resolve. Despite being threatened by sniper fire or planted bombs, by shoving and punching
and spitting and angry stares, they adhered to that sweet spirit of resistance, the principles of
nonviolence that had accounted for their success.
Second, they understood that as much as our government and our political parties had
betrayed them in the past -- as much as our nation itself had betrayed its own ideals -government, if aligned with the interests of its people, can be -- and must be -- a force for
good. So they stayed on the Justice Department. They went into the courts. They pressured
Congress, they pressured their President. They didn’t give up on this country. They didn’t
give up on government. They didn’t somehow say government was the problem; they said,
we're going to change government, we're going to make it better. Imperfect as it was, they
continued to believe in the promise of democracy; in America's constant ability to remake
itself, to perfect this union.
Third, our predecessors were never so consumed with theoretical debates that they couldn't
see progress when it came. Sometimes I get a little frustrated when folks just don't want to
see that even if we don't get everything, we're getting something. King understood that the
desegregation of the Armed Forces didn’t end the civil rights movement, because black and
white soldiers still couldn't sit together at the same lunch counter when they came home. But

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
he still insisted on the rightness of desegregating the Armed Forces. That was a good first
step -- even as he called for more. He didn’t suggest that somehow by the signing of the Civil
Rights that somehow all discrimination would end. But he also didn’t think that we shouldn’t
sign the Civil Rights Act because it hasn’t solved every problem. Let's take a victory, he said,
and then keep on marching. Forward steps, large and small, were recognized for what they
were -- which was progress.
Fourth, at the core of King's success was an appeal to conscience that touched hearts and
opened minds, a commitment to universal ideals -- of freedom, of justice, of equality -- that
spoke to all people, not just some people. For King understood that without broad support,
any movement for civil rights could not be sustained. That's why he marched with the white
auto worker in Detroit. That's why he linked arm with the Mexican farm worker in California,
and united people of all colors in the noble quest for freedom.
Of course, King overcame in other ways as well. He remained strategically focused on gaining
ground -- his eyes on the prize constantly -- understanding that change would not be easy,
understand that change wouldn't come overnight, understanding that there would be setbacks
and false starts along the way, but understanding, as he said in 1956, that "we can walk and
never get weary, because we know there is a great camp meeting in the promised land of
freedom and justice."
And it's because the Moses generation overcame that the trials we face today are very
different from the ones that tested us in previous generations. Even after the worst recession
in generations, life in America is not even close to being as brutal as it was back then for so
many. That's the legacy of Dr. King and his movement. That's our inheritance. Having said
that, let there be no doubt the challenges of our new age are serious in their own right, and
we must face them as squarely as they faced the challenges they saw.
I know it's been a hard road we've traveled this year to rescue the economy, but the economy
is growing again. The job losses have finally slowed, and around the country, there's signs
that businesses and families are beginning to rebound. We are making progress.
I know it's been a hard road that we've traveled to reach this point on health reform. I
promise you I know. But under the legislation I will sign into law, insurance companies won't
be able to drop you when you get sick, and more than 30 million people -- our fellow
Americans will finally have insurance. More than 30 million men and women and children,
mothers and fathers, won't be worried about what might happen to them if they get sick. This

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
will be a victory not for Democrats; this will be a victory for dignity and decency, for our
common humanity. This will be a victory for the United States of America.
Let's work to change the political system, as imperfect as it is. I know people can feel down
about the way things are going sometimes here in Washington. I know it's tempting to give
up on the political process. But we've put in place tougher rules on lobbying and ethics and
transparency -- tougher rules than any administration in history. It's not enough, but it's
progress. Progress is possible. Don't give up on voting. Don't give up on advocacy. Don't
give up on activism. There are too many needs to be met, too much work to be done. Like
Dr. King said, "We must accept finite disappointment but never lose infinite hope."
Let us broaden our coalition, building a confederation not of liberals or conservatives, not of
red states or blue states, but of all Americans who are hurting today, and searching for a
better tomorrow. The urgency of the hour demands that we make common cause with all of
America's workers -- white, black, brown -- all of whom are being hammered by this
recession, all of whom are yearning for that spring to come. It demands that we reach out to
those who've been left out in the cold even when the economy is good, even when we're not
in recession -- the youth in the inner cities, the youth here in Washington, D.C., people in
rural communities who haven't seen prosperity reach them for a very long time. It demands
that we fight discrimination, whatever form it may come. That means we fight discrimination
against gays and lesbians, and we make common cause to reform our immigration system.
And finally, we have to recognize, as Dr. King did, that progress can't just come from without
-- it also has to come from within. And over the past year, for example, we've made
meaningful improvements in the field of education. I've got a terrific Secretary of Education,
Arne Duncan. He's been working hard with states and working hard with the D.C. school
district, and we've insisted on reform, and we've insisted on accountability.
We we're putting in more money and we've provided more Pell Grants and more tuition tax
credits and simpler financial aid forms. We've done all that, but parents still need to parent.
Kids still need to own up to their responsibilities. We still have to set high expectations for
our young people. Folks can't simply look to government for all the answers without also
looking inside themselves, inside their own homes, for some of the answers.
Progress will only come if we're willing to promote that ethic of hard work, a sense of
responsibility, in our own lives. I'm not talking, by the way, just to the African American
community. Sometimes when I say these things people assme, well, he's just talking to black
people about working hard. No, no, no, no. I'm talking to the American community. Because

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
somewhere along the way, we, as a nation, began to lose touch with some of our core values.
You know what I'm talking about. We became enraptured with the false prophets who
prophesized an easy path to success, paved with credit cards and home equity loans and getrich-quick schemes, and the most important thing was to be a celebrity; it doesn’t matter
what you do, as long as you get on TV. That's everybody.
We forgot what made the bus boycott a success; what made the civil rights movement a
success; what made the United States of America a success -- that, in this country, there's no
substitute for hard work, no substitute for a job well done, no substitute for being responsible
stewards of God's blessings.
What we're called to do, then, is rebuild America from its foundation on up. To reinvest in the
essentials that we've neglected for too long -- like health care, like education, like a better
energy policy, like basic infrastructure, like scientific research. Our generation is called to
buckle down and get back to basics.
We must do so not only for ourselves, but also for our children, and their children. For Jordan
and for Austin. That's a sacrifice that falls on us to make. It's a much smaller sacrifice than
the Moses generation had to make, but it's still a sacrifice.
Yes, it's hard to transition to a clean energy economy. Sometimes it may be inconvenient, but
it's a sacrifice that we have to make. It's hard to be fiscally responsible when we have all
these human needs, and we're inheriting enormous deficits and debt, but that's a sacrifice
that we're going to have to make. You know, it's easy, after a hard day's work, to just put
your kid in front of the TV set -- you're tired, don't want to fuss with them -- instead of
reading to them, but that's a sacrifice we must joyfully accept.
Sometimes it's hard to be a good father and good mother. Sometimes it's hard to be a good
neighbor, or a good citizen, to give up time in service of others, to give something of
ourselves to a cause that's greater than ourselves -- as Michelle and I are urging folks to do
tomorrow to honor and celebrate Dr. King. But these are sacrifices that we are called to
make. These are sacrifices that our faith calls us to make. Our faith in the future. Our faith
in America. Our faith in God.
And on his sermon all those years ago, Dr. King quoted a poet's verse:
Truth forever on the scaffold
Wrong forever on the throne…

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
And behind the dim unknown stands God
Within the shadows keeping watch above his own.
Even as Dr. King stood in this church, a victory in the past and uncertainty in the future, he
trusted God. He trusted that God would make a way. A way for prayers to be answered. A
way for our union to be perfected. A way for the arc of the moral universe, no matter how
long, to slowly bend towards truth and bend towards freedom, to bend towards justice. He
had faith that God would make a way out of no way.
You know, folks ask me sometimes why I look so calm. They say, all this stuff coming at you,
how come you just seem calm? And I have a confession to make here. There are times
where I'm not so calm. Reggie Love knows. My wife knows. There are times when progress
seems too slow. There are times when the words that are spoken about me hurt. There are
times when the barbs sting. There are times when it feels like all these efforts are for naught,
and change is so painfully slow in coming, and I have to confront my own doubts.
But let me tell you -- during those times it's faith that keeps me calm. It's faith that gives me
peace. The same faith that leads a single mother to work two jobs to put a roof over her head
when she has doubts. The same faith that keeps an unemployed father to keep on submitting
job applications even after he's been rejected a hundred times. The same faith that says to a
teacher even if the first nine children she's teaching she can't reach, that that 10th one she's
going to be able to reach. The same faith that breaks the silence of an earthquake's wake
with the sound of prayers and hymns sung by a Haitian community. A faith in things not
seen, in better days ahead, in Him who holds the future in the hollow of His hand. A faith that
lets us mount up on wings like eagles; lets us run and not be weary; lets us walk and not
faint.
So let us hold fast to that faith, as Joshua held fast to the faith of his fathers, and together,
we shall overcome the challenges of a new age. Together, we shall seize the promise of this
moment. Together, we shall make a way through winter, and we're going to welcome the
spring. Through God all things are possible.
May the memory of Dr. Martin Luther King continue to inspire us and ennoble our world and
all who inhabit it. And may God bless the United States of America.
Thank you very much, everybody. God bless you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright Status = Public domain

Updated 1/13/22

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329562" filename="Barack_Obama_-_More_Perfect_Union.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20More%20Perfect%20Union.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
A More Perfect Union
Delivered 18 March 2008, Philadelphia, PA

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Let me begin by thanking Harris Wofford for his contributions to this country. In so many
different ways, he exemplifies what we mean by the word "citizen." And so we are very
grateful to him for all the work he has done; and I'm thankful for the gracious and thoughtful
introduction.
"We the people, in order to form a more perfect union." Two hundred and twenty one years
ago, in a hall that still stands across the street, a group of men gathered and, with these
simple words, launched America's improbable experiment in democracy. Farmers and
scholars, statesmen and patriots who had traveled across the ocean to escape tyranny and
persecution finally made real their Declaration of Independence at a Philadelphia convention
that lasted through the spring of 1787.
The document they produced was eventually signed, but ultimately unfinished. It was stained
by this nation's original sin of slavery, a question that divided the colonies and brought the
convention to a stalemate until the founders chose to allow the slave trade to continue for at
least 20 more years, and to leave any final resolution to future generations.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Of course, the answer to the slavery question was already embedded within our Constitution - a Constitution that had at is very core the ideal of equal citizenship under the law; a
Constitution that promised its people liberty and justice, and a union that could be and should
be perfected over time.
And yet words on a parchment would not be enough to deliver slaves from bondage, or
provide men and women of every color and creed their full rights and obligations as citizens of
the United States. What would be needed were Americans in successive generations who were
willing to do their part -- through protests and struggles, on the streets and in the courts,
through a civil war and civil disobedience, and always at great risk -- to narrow that gap
between the promise of our ideals and the reality of their time.
This was one of the tasks we set forth at the beginning of this presidential campaign: to
continue the long march of those who came before us, a march for a more just, more equal,
more free, more caring, and more prosperous America. I chose to run for President at this
moment in history because I believe deeply that we cannot solve the challenges of our time
unless we solve them together, unless we perfect our union by understanding that we may
have different stories, but we hold common hopes; that we may not look the same and may
not have come from the same place, but we all want to move in the same direction: towards a
better future for our children and our grandchildren. And this belief comes from my unyielding
faith in the decency and generosity of the American people. But it also comes from my own
story.
I'm the son of a black man from Kenya and a white woman from Kansas. I was raised with the
help of a white grandfather who survived a Depression to serve in Patton's army during World
War II, and a white grandmother who worked on a bomber assembly line at Fort Leavenworth
while he was overseas. I've gone to some of the best schools in America and I've lived in one
of the world's poorest nations. I am married to a black American who carries within her the
blood of slaves and slave owners, an inheritance we pass on to our two precious daughters. I
have brothers, sisters, nieces, nephews, uncles, and cousins of every race and every hue
scattered across three continents. And for as long as I live, I will never forget that in no other
country on earth is my story even possible. It's a story that hasn't made me the most
conventional of candidates. But it is a story that has seared into my genetic makeup the idea
that this nation is more than the sum of its parts -- that out of many, we are truly one.
Now throughout the first year of this campaign, against all predictions to the contrary, we saw
how hungry the American people were for this message of unity. Despite the temptation to
view my candidacy through a purely racial lens, we won commanding victories in states with

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
some of the whitest populations in the country. In South Carolina, where the Confederate flag
still flies, we built a powerful coalition of African Americans and white Americans. This is not to
say that race has not been an issue in this campaign. At various stages in the campaign, some
commentators have deemed me either "too black" or "not black enough." We saw racial
tensions bubble to the surface during the week before the South Carolina primary. The press
has scoured every single exit poll for the latest evidence of racial polarization, not just in
terms of white and black, but black and brown as well.
And yet, it's only been in the last couple of weeks that the discussion of race in this campaign
has taken a particularly divisive turn. On one end of the spectrum, we've heard the implication
that my candidacy is somehow an exercise in affirmative action; that it's based solely on the
desire of wild and wide-eyed liberals to purchase racial reconciliation on the cheap. On the
other end, we've heard my former pastor, Jeremiah Wright, use incendiary language to
express views that have the potential not only to widen the racial divide, but views that
denigrate both the greatness and the goodness of our nation and that rightly offend white and
black alike.
Now I've already condemned, in unequivocal terms, the statements of Reverend Wright that
have caused such controversy, and in some cases, pain. For some, nagging questions remain:
Did I know him to be an occasionally fierce critic of American domestic and foreign policy? Of
course. Did I ever hear him make remarks that could be considered controversial while I sat in
the church? Yes. Did I strongly disagree with many of his political views? Absolutely, just as
I'm sure many of you have heard remarks from your pastors, priests, or rabbis with which you
strongly disagree.
But the remarks that have caused this recent firestorm weren't simply controversial. They
weren't simply a religious leader's efforts to speak out against perceived injustice. Instead,
they expressed a profoundly distorted view of this country, a view that sees white racism as
endemic and that elevates what is wrong with America above all that we know is right with
America; a view that sees the conflicts in the Middle East as rooted primarily in the actions of
stalwart allies like Israel instead of emanating from the perverse and hateful ideologies of
radical Islam.
As such, Reverend Wright's comments were not only wrong but divisive, divisive at a time
when we need unity; racially charged at a time when we need to come together to solve a set
of monumental problems: two wars, a terrorist threat, a falling economy, a chronic health
care crisis, and potentially devastating climate change -- problems that are neither black or
white or Latino or Asian, but rather problems that confront us all.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Given my background, my politics, and my professed values and ideals, there will no doubt be
those for whom my statements of condemnation are not enough. Why associate myself with
Reverend Wright in the first place, they may ask? Why not join another church? And I confess
that if all that I knew of Reverend Wright were the snippets of those sermons that have run in
an endless loop on the television sets and YouTube, if Trinity United Church of Christ
conformed to the caricatures being peddled by some commentators, there is no doubt that I
would react in much the same way.
But the truth is, that isn't all that I know of the man. The man I met more than twenty years
ago is a man who helped introduce me to my Christian faith, a man who spoke to me about
our obligations to love one another, to care for the sick and lift up the poor. He is a man who
served his country as a United States Marine, and who has studied and lectured at some of
the finest universities and seminaries in the country, and who over 30 years has led a church
that serves the community by doing God's work here on Earth -- by housing the homeless,
ministering to the needy, providing day care services and scholarships and prison ministries,
and reaching out to those suffering from HIV/AIDS.
In my first book, Dreams From My Father, I described the experience of my first service at
Trinity, and it goes as follows:
People began to shout, to rise from their seats and clap and cry out, a forceful wind
carrying the reverend's voice up to the rafters.
And in that single note -- hope -- I heard something else; at the foot of that cross,
inside the thousands of churches across the city, I imagined the stories of ordinary
black people merging with the stories of David and Goliath, Moses and Pharaoh, the
Christians in the lion's den, Ezekiel's field of dry bones.
Those stories of survival and freedom and hope became our stories, my story. The
blood that spilled was our blood; the tears our tears; until this black church, on this
bright day, seemed once more a vessel carrying the story of a people into future
generations and into a larger world. Our trials and triumphs became at once unique
and universal, black and more than black. In chronicling our journey, the stories and
songs gave us a meaning to reclaim memories that we didn't need to feel shame about
-- memories that all people might study and cherish and with which we could start to
rebuild.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That has been my experience at Trinity. Like other predominantly black churches across the
country, Trinity embodies the black community in its entirety -- the doctor and the welfare
mom, the model student and the former gang-banger. Like other black churches, Trinity's
services are full of raucous laughter and sometimes bawdy humor. They are full of dancing
and clapping and screaming and shouting that may seem jarring to the untrained ear. The
church contains in full the kindness and cruelty, the fierce intelligence and the shocking
ignorance, the struggles and successes, the love and, yes, the bitterness and biases that
make up the black experience in America.
And this helps explain, perhaps, my relationship with Reverend Wright. As imperfect as he
may be, he has been like family to me. He strengthens my faith, officiated my wedding, and
baptized my children. Not once in my conversations with him have I heard him talk about any
ethnic group in derogatory terms or treat whites with whom he interacted with anything but
courtesy and respect. He contains within him the contradictions -- the good and the bad -- of
the community that he has served diligently for so many years.
I can no more disown him than I can disown the black community. I can no more disown him
than I can disown my white grandmother, a woman who helped raise me, a woman who
sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in
this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed her by on the
street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made
me cringe.
These people are part of me. And they are part of America, this country that I love.
Now, some will see this as an attempt to justify or excuse comments that are simply
inexcusable. I can assure you it is not. And I suppose the politically safe thing to do would be
to move on from this episode and just hope that it fades into the woodwork. We can dismiss
Reverend Wright as a crank or a demagogue, just as some have dismissed Geraldine Ferraro
in the aftermath of her recent statements as harboring some deep -- deep-seated bias.
But race is an issue that I believe this nation cannot afford to ignore right now. We would be
making the same mistake that Reverend Wright made in his offending sermons about
America: to simplify and stereotype and amplify the negative to the point that it distorts
reality. The fact is that the comments that have been made and the issues that have surfaced
over the last few weeks reflect the complexities of race in this country that we've never really
worked through, a part of our union that we have not yet made perfect. And if we walk away
now, if we simply retreat into our respective corners, we will never be able to come together

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
and solve challenges like health care or education or the need to find good jobs for every
American.
Understanding -- Understanding this reality requires a reminder of how we arrived at this
point. As William Faulkner once wrote, "The past isn't dead and buried. In fact, it isn't even
past." We do not need to recite here the history of racial injustice in this country. But we do
need to remind ourselves that so many of the disparities that exist between the AfricanAmerican community and the larger American community today can be traced directly to
inequalities passed on from an earlier generation that suffered under the brutal legacy of
slavery and Jim Crow. Segregated schools were, and are, inferior schools. We still haven't
fixed them, 50 years after Brown versus Board of Education. And the inferior education they
provided, then and now, helps explain the pervasive achievement gap between today's black
and white students.
Legalized discrimination, where blacks were prevented, often through violence, from owning
property, or loans were not granted to African-American business owners, or black
homeowners could not access FHA mortgages, or blacks were excluded from unions, or the
police force, or the fire department meant that black families could not amass any meaningful
wealth to bequeath to future generations. That history helps explain the wealth and income
gap between blacks and whites and the concentrated pockets of poverty that persist in so
many of today's urban and rural communities.
A lack of economic opportunity among black men and the shame and frustration that came
from not being able to provide for one's family contributed to the erosion of black families, a
problem that welfare policies for many years may have worsened. And the lack of basic
services in so many urban black neighborhoods -- parks for kids to play in, police walking the
beat, regular garbage pick-up, building code enforcement -- all helped create a cycle of
violence, blight, and neglect that continues to haunt us.
This is the reality in which Reverend Wright and other African-Americans of his generation
grew up. They came of age in the late '50s and early '60s, a time when segregation was still
the law of the land and opportunity was systematically constricted. What's remarkable is not
how many failed in the face of discrimination, but how many men and women overcame the
odds, how many were able to make a way out of no way for those like me who would come
after them.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
But for all those who scratched and clawed their way to get a piece of the American Dream,
there were many who didn't make it -- those who were ultimately defeated, in one way or
another, by discrimination. That legacy of defeat was passed on to future generations -- those
young men and increasingly young women who we see standing on street corners or
languishing in our prisons, without hope or prospects for the future. Even for those blacks who
did make it, questions of race, and racism, continue to define their world view in fundamental
ways. For the men and women of Reverend Wright's generation, the memories of humiliation
and doubt and fear have not gone away, nor has the anger and the bitterness of those years.
That anger may not get expressed in public, in front of white co-workers or white friends, but
it does find voice in the barbershop or the beauty shop or around the kitchen table. At times,
that anger is exploited by politicians to gin up votes along racial lines or to make up for a
politician's own failings. And occasionally it finds voice in the church on Sunday morning, in
the pulpit and in the pews. The fact that so many people are surprised to hear that anger in
some of Reverend Wright's sermons simply reminds us of that old truism that the most
segregated hour of American life occurs on Sunday morning.
That -- That anger is not always productive. Indeed, all too often it distracts attention from
solving real problems. It keeps us from squarely facing our own complicity within the AfricanAmerican community in our own condition. It prevents the African-American community from
forging the alliances it needs to bring about real change.
But the anger is real; it is powerful, and to simply wish it away, to condemn it without
understanding its roots only serves to widen the chasm of misunderstanding that exists
between the races.
In fact, a similar anger exists within segments of the white community. Most working and
middle-class white Americans don't feel that they've been particularly privileged by their race.
Their experience is the immigrant experience. As far as they're concerned, no one handed
them anything; they built it from scratch. They've worked hard all their lives, many times only
to see their jobs shipped overseas or their pensions dumped after a lifetime of labor. They are
anxious about their futures, and they feel their dreams slipping away. And in an era of
stagnant wages and global competition, opportunity comes to be seen as a zero sum game, in
which your dreams come at my expense. So when they are told to bus their children to a
school across town, when they hear that an African American is getting an advantage in
landing a good job or a spot in a good college because of an injustice that they themselves
never committed, when they're told that their fears about crime in urban neighborhoods are
somehow prejudice, resentment builds over time.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Like the anger within the black community, these resentments aren't always expressed in
polite company. But they have helped shape the political landscape for at least a generation.
Anger over welfare and affirmative action helped forge the Reagan Coalition. Politicians
routinely exploited fears of crime for their own electoral ends. Talk show hosts and
conservative commentators built entire careers unmasking bogus claims of racism while
dismissing legitimate discussions of racial injustice and inequality as mere political correctness
or reverse racism.
And just as black anger often proved counterproductive, so have these white resentments
distracted attention from the real culprits of the middle class squeeze: a corporate culture rife
with inside dealing, questionable accounting practices, and short-term greed; a Washington
dominated by lobbyists and special interests; economic policies that favor the few over the
many. And yet, to wish away the resentments of white Americans, to label them as misguided
or even racist without recognizing they are grounded in legitimate concerns, this, too, widens
the racial divide and blocks the path to understanding.
This is where we are right now.
It's a racial stalemate we've been stuck in for years. And contrary to the claims of some of my
critics, black and white, I have never been so naive as to believe that we can get beyond our
racial divisions in a single election cycle or with a single candidate, particularly -- particularly a
candidacy as imperfect as my own. But I have asserted a firm conviction, a conviction rooted
in my faith in God and my faith in the American people, that, working together, we can move
beyond some of our old racial wounds and that, in fact, we have no choice -- we have no
choice if we are to continue on the path of a more perfect union.
For the African-American community, that path means embracing the burdens of our past
without becoming victims of our past. It means continuing to insist on a full measure of justice
in every aspect of American life. But it also means binding our particular grievances, for better
health care and better schools and better jobs, to the larger aspirations of all Americans -- the
white woman struggling to break the glass ceiling, the white man who's been laid off, the
immigrant trying to feed his family. And it means also taking full responsibility for our own
lives -- by demanding more from our fathers, and spending more time with our children, and
reading to them, and teaching them that while they may face challenges and discrimination in
their own lives, they must never succumb to despair or cynicism. They must always believe -They must always believe that they can write their own destiny.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
Ironically, this quintessentially American -- and, yes, conservative -- notion of self-help found
frequent expression in Reverend Wright's sermons. But what my former pastor too often failed
to understand is that embarking on a program of self-help also requires a belief that society
can change. The profound mistake of Reverend Wright's sermons is not that he spoke about
racism in our society. It's that he spoke as if our society was static, as if no progress had been
made, as if this country -- a country that has made it possible for one of his own members to
run for the highest office in the land and build a coalition of white and black, Latino, Asian,
rich, poor, young and old -- is still irrevocably bound to a tragic past. What we know, what we
have seen, is that America can change. That is true genius of this nation. What we have
already achieved gives us hope -- the audacity to hope -- for what we can and must achieve
tomorrow.
Now, in the white community, the path to a more perfect union means acknowledging that
what ails the African-American community does not just exist in the minds of black people;
that the legacy of discrimination -- and current incidents of discrimination, while less overt
than in the past -- that these things are real and must be addressed.
Not just with words, but with deeds -- by investing in our schools and our communities; by
enforcing our civil rights laws and ensuring fairness in our criminal justice system; by
providing this generation with ladders of opportunity that were unavailable for previous
generations. It requires all Americans to realize that your dreams do not have to come at the
expense of my dreams, that investing in the health, welfare, and education of black and
brown and white children will ultimately help all of America prosper.
In the end, then, what is called for is nothing more and nothing less than what all the world's
great religions demand: that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us. Let us be
our brother's keeper, Scripture tells us. Let us be our sister's keeper. Let us find that common
stake we all have in one another, and let our politics reflect that spirit as well.
For we have a choice in this country. We can accept a politics that breeds division and conflict
and cynicism. We can tackle race only as spectacle, as we did in the O.J. trial; or in the wake
of tragedy, as we did in the aftermath of Katrina; or as fodder for the nightly news. We can
play Reverend Wright's sermons on every channel every day and talk about them from now
until the election, and make the only question in this campaign whether or not the American
people think that I somehow believe or sympathize with his most offensive words. We can
pounce on some gaffe by a Hillary supporter as evidence that she's playing the race card; or
we can speculate on whether white men will all flock to John McCain in the general election
regardless of his policies.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
We can do that. But if we do, I can tell you that in the next election, we'll be talking about
some other distraction, and then another one, and then another one. And nothing will change.
That is one option.
Or, at this moment, in this election, we can come together and say, "Not this time." This time
we want to talk about the crumbling schools that are stealing the future of black children and
white children and Asian children and Hispanic children and Native-American children. This
time we want to reject the cynicism that tells us that these kids can't learn; that those kids
who don't look like us are somebody else's problem. The children of America are not "those
kids," -- they are our kids, and we will not let them fall behind in a 21st-century economy. Not
this time.
This time we want to talk about how the lines in the emergency room are filled with whites
and blacks and Hispanics who do not have health care, who don't have the power on their own
to overcome the special interests in Washington, but who can take them on if we do it
together.
This time we want to talk about the shuttered mills that once provided a decent life for men
and women of every race, and the homes for sale that once belonged to Americans from
every religion, every region, every walk of life. This time we want to talk about the fact that
the real problem is not that someone who doesn't look like you might take your job; it's that
the corporation you work for will ship it overseas for nothing more than a profit. This time -This time we want to talk about the men and women of every color and creed who serve
together, and fight together, and bleed together under the same proud flag. We want to talk
about how to bring them home from a war that should've never been authorized and
should've never been waged. And we want to talk about how we'll show our patriotism by
caring for them, and their families, and giving them the benefits that they have earned.
I would not be running for President if I didn't believe with all my heart that this is what the
vast majority of Americans want for this country. This union may never be perfect, but
generation after generation has shown that it can always be perfected. And today, whenever I
find myself feeling doubtful or cynical about this possibility, what gives me the most hope is
the next generation -- the young people whose attitudes and beliefs and openness to change
have already made history in this election.
There's one story in particular that I'd like to leave you with today, a story I told when I had
the great honor of speaking on Dr. King's birthday at his home church, Ebenezer Baptist, in

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Atlanta. There's a young, 23-year-old woman, a white woman named Ashley Baia, who
organized for our campaign in Florence, South Carolina. She'd been working to organize a
mostly African-American community since the beginning of this campaign, and one day she
was at a roundtable discussion where everyone went around telling their story and why they
were there. And Ashley said that when she was 9 years old, her mother got cancer. And
because she had to miss days of work, she was let go and lost her health care. They had to
file for bankruptcy, and that's when Ashley decided that she had to do something to help her
mom.
She knew that food was one of their most expensive costs, and so Ashley convinced her
mother that what she really liked and really wanted to eat more than anything else was
mustard and relish sandwiches -- because that was the cheapest way to eat. That's the mind
of a 9 year old. She did this for a year until her mom got better. And so Ashley told everyone
at the roundtable that the reason she had joined our campaign was so that she could help the
millions of other children in the country who want and need to help their parents too.
Now, Ashley might have made a different choice. Perhaps somebody told her along the way
that the source of her mother's problems were blacks who were on welfare and too lazy to
work, or Hispanics who were coming into the country illegally. But she didn't. She sought out
allies in her fight against injustice.
Anyway, Ashley finishes her story and then goes around the room and asks everyone else why
they're supporting the campaign. They all have different stories and different reasons. Many
bring up a specific issue. And finally they come to this elderly black man who's been sitting
there quietly the entire time. And Ashley asks him why he's there. And he doesn't bring up a
specific issue. He does not say health care or the economy. He does not say education or the
war. He does not say that he was there because of Barack Obama. He simply says to
everyone in the room, "I am here because of Ashley." "I'm here because of Ashley."
Now, by itself, that single moment of recognition between that young white girl and that old
black man is not enough. It is not enough to give health care to the sick, or jobs to the
jobless, or education to our children. But it is where we start. It is where our union grows
stronger. And as so many generations have come to realize over the course of the 221 years
since a band of patriots signed that document right here in Philadelphia, that is where
perfection begins.
Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329691" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Moscow_New_Economic_School.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Moscow%20New%20Economic%20School.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the New Economic School Graduating Class

Delivered 7 July 2009, Gostinny Dvor, Moscow, Russia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning. It is a great honor for me to join you at the New Economic School. Michelle and I are so
pleased to be in Moscow. And as somebody who was born in Hawaii, I'm glad to be here in July instead of
January.
I know that NES is a young school, but I speak to you today with deep respect for Russia's timeless
heritage. Russian writers have helped us understand the complexity of the human experience, and
recognize eternal truths. Russian painters, composers, and dancers have introduced us to new forms of
beauty. Russian scientists have cured disease, sought new frontiers of progress, and helped us go to
space.
These are contributions that are not contained by Russia's borders, as vast as those borders are. Indeed,
Russia's heritage has touched every corner of the world, and speaks to the humanity that we share. That
includes my own country, which has been blessed with Russian immigrants for decades; we've been
enriched by Russian culture, and enhanced by Russian cooperation. And as a resident of Washington, D.C.,
I continue to benefit from the contributions of Russians -- specifically, from Alexander Ovechkin. We're very
pleased to have him in Washington, D.C.
Here at NES, you have inherited this great cultural legacy, but your focus on economics is no less
fundamental to the future of humanity. As Pushkin said, "Inspiration is needed in geometry just as much as
poetry." And today, I want particularly to speak to those of you preparing to graduate. You're poised to be
leaders in academia and industry; in finance and government. But before you move forward, it's worth
reflecting on what has already taken place during your young lives.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Like President Medvedev and myself, you're not old enough to have witnessed the darkest hours of the
Cold War, when hydrogen bombs were tested in the atmosphere, and children drilled in fallout shelters, and
we reached the brink of nuclear catastrophe. But you are the last generation born when the world was
divided. At that time, the American and Soviet armies were still massed in Europe, trained and ready to
fight. The ideological trenches of the last century were roughly in place. Competition in everything from
astrophysics to athletics was treated as a zero-sum game. If one person won, then the other person had to
lose.
And then, within a few short years, the world as it was ceased to be. Now, make no mistake: This change
did not come from any one nation. The Cold War reached a conclusion because of the actions of many
nations over many years, and because the people of Russia and Eastern Europe stood up and decided that
its end would be peaceful.
With the end of the Cold War, there were extraordinary expectations -- for peace and for prosperity; for new
arrangements among nations, and new opportunities for individuals. Like all periods of great change, it was
a time of ambitious plans and endless possibilities. But, of course, things don't always work out exactly as
planned. Back in 1993, shortly after this school opened, one NES student summed up the difficulty of
change when he told a reporter, and I quote him: "The real world is not so rational as on paper." The real
world is not so rational as on paper.
Over two tumultuous decades, that truth has been borne out around the world. Great wealth has been
created, but it has not eliminated vast pockets of crushing poverty. Poverty exists here, it exists in the United
States, and it exists all around the world. More people have gone to the ballot box, but too many
governments still fail to protect the rights of their people. Ideological struggles have diminished, but they've
been replaced by conflicts over tribe and ethnicity and religion. A human being with a computer can hold the
same amount of information stored in the Russian State Library, but that technology can also be used to do
great harm.
In a new Russia, the disappearance of old political and economic restrictions after the end of the Soviet
Union brought both opportunity and hardship. A few prospered, but many more did not. There were tough
times. But the Russian people showed strength and made sacrifices, and you achieved hard-earned
progress through a growing economy and greater confidence. And despite painful times, many in Eastern
Europe and Russia are much better off today than 20 years ago.
We see that progress here at NES -- a school founded with Western support that is now distinctly Russian;
a place of learning and inquiry where the test of an idea is not whether it is Russian or American or
European, but whether it works. Above all, we see that progress in all of you -- young people with a young
century to shape as you see fit.
Your lifetime coincides with this era of transition. But think about the fundamental questions asked when this
school was founded. What kind of future is Russia going to have? What kind of future are Russia and
America going to have together? What world order will replace the Cold War? Those questions still don't
have clear answers, and so now they must be answered by you -- by your generation in Russia, in America,
and around the world. You get to decide. And while I cannot answer those questions for you, I can speak
plainly about the future that America is seeking.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
To begin with, let me be clear: America wants a strong, peaceful, and prosperous Russia. This belief is
rooted in our respect for the Russian people, and a shared history between our nations that goes beyond
competition. Despite our past rivalry, our people were allies in the greatest struggle of the last century.
Recently, I noted this when I was in Normandy -- for just as men from Boston and Birmingham risked all that
they had to storm those beaches and scale those cliffs, Soviet soldiers from places like Kazan and Kiev
endured unimaginable hardships to repeal -- to repel an invasion, and turn the tide in the east. As President
John Kennedy said, "No nation in history of battle ever suffered more than the Soviet Union in the Second
World War."
So as we honor this past, we also recognize the future benefit that will come from a strong and vibrant
Russia. Think of the issues that will define your lives: security from nuclear weapons and extremism; access
to markets and opportunity; health and the environment; an international system that protects sovereignty
and human rights, while promoting stability and prosperity. These challenges demand global partnership,
and that partnership will be stronger if Russia occupies its rightful place as a great power.
Yet unfortunately, there is sometimes a sense that old assumptions must prevail, old ways of thinking; a
conception of power that is rooted in the past rather than in the future. There is the 20th century view that
the United States and Russia are destined to be antagonists, and that a strong Russia or a strong America
can only assert themselves in opposition to one another. And there is a 19th century view that we are
destined to vie for spheres of influence, and that great powers must forge competing blocs to balance one
another.
These assumptions are wrong. In 2009, a great power does not show strength by dominating or demonizing
other countries. The days when empires could treat sovereign states as pieces on a chess board are over.
As I said in Cairo, given our independence, any world order that -- given our interdependence, any world
order that tries to elevate one nation or one group of people over another will inevitably fail. The pursuit of
power is no longer a zero-sum game -- progress must be shared.
That's why I have called for a "reset" in relations between the United States and Russia. This must be more
than a fresh start between the Kremlin and the White House -- though that is important and I've had
excellent discussions with both your President and your Prime Minister. It must be a sustained effort among
the American and Russian people to identify mutual interests, and expand dialogue and cooperation that
can pave the way to progress.
This will not be easy. It's difficult to forge a lasting partnership between former adversaries, it's hard to
change habits that have been ingrained in our governments and our bureaucracies for decades. But I
believe that on the fundamental issues that will shape this century, Americans and Russians share common
interests that form a basis for cooperation. It is not for me to define Russia's national interests, but I can tell
you about America's national interests, and I believe that you will see that we share common ground.
First, America has an interest in reversing the spread of nuclear weapons and preventing their use.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
In the last century, generations of Americans and Russians inherited the power to destroy nations, and the
understanding that using that power would bring about our own destruction. In 2009, our inheritance is
different. You and I don't have to ask whether American and Russian leaders will respect a balance of terror
-- we understand the horrific consequences of any war between our two countries. But we do have to ask
this question: We have to ask whether extremists who have killed innocent civilians in New York and in
Moscow will show that same restraint. We have to ask whether 10 or 20 or 50 nuclear-armed nations will
protect their arsenals and refrain from using them.
This is the core of the nuclear challenge in the 21st century. The notion that prestige comes from holding
these weapons, or that we can protect ourselves by picking and choosing which nations can have these
weapons, is an illusion. In the short period since the end of the Cold War, we've already seen India,
Pakistan, and North Korea conduct nuclear tests. Without a fundamental change, do any of us truly believe
that the next two decades will not bring about the further spread of these nuclear weapons?
That's why America is committed to stopping nuclear proliferation, and ultimately seeking a world without
nuclear weapons. That is consistent with our commitment under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty. That
is our responsibility as the world's two leading nuclear powers. And while I know this goal won't be met
soon, pursuing it provides the legal and moral foundation to prevent the proliferation and eventual use of
nuclear weapons.
We're already taking important steps to build this foundation. Yesterday, President Medvedev and I made
progress on negotiating a new treaty that will substantially reduce our warheads and delivery systems. We
renewed our commitment to clean, safe and peaceful nuclear energy, which must be a right for all nations
that live up to their responsibilities under the NPT. And we agreed to increase cooperation on nuclear
security, which is essential to achieving the goal of securing all vulnerable nuclear material within four years.
As we keep our own commitments, we must hold other nations accountable for theirs. Whether America or
Russia, neither of us would benefit from a nuclear arms race in East Asia or the Middle East. That's why we
should be united in opposing North Korea's efforts to become a nuclear power, and opposing Iran's efforts
to acquire a nuclear weapon. And I'm pleased that President Medvedev and I agreed upon a joint threat
assessment of the ballistic challenges -- ballistic missile challenges of the 21st century, including from Iran
and North Korea.
This is not about singling out individual nations -- it's about the responsibilities of all nations. If we fail to
stand together, then the NPT and the Security Council will lose credibility, and international law will give way
to the law of the jungle. And that benefits no one. As I said in Prague, rules must be binding, violations must
be punished, and words must mean something.
The successful enforcement of these rules will remove causes of disagreement. I know Russia opposes the
planned configuration for missile defense in Europe. And my administration is reviewing these plans to
enhance the security of America, Europe and the world. And I've made it clear that this system is directed at
preventing a potential attack from Iran. It has nothing to do with Russia. In fact, I want to work together with
Russia on a missile defense architecture that makes us all safer. But if the threat from Iran's nuclear and
ballistic missile program is eliminated, the driving force for missile defense in Europe will be eliminated, and
that is in our mutual interests.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, in addition to securing the world's most dangerous weapons, a second area where America has a
critical national interest is in isolating and defeating violent extremists.
For years, al Qaeda and its affiliates have defiled a great religion of peace and justice, and ruthlessly
murdered men, women and children of all nationalities and faiths. Indeed, above all, they have murdered
Muslims. And these extremists have killed in Amman and Bali; Islamabad and Kabul; and they have the
blood of Americans and Russians on their hands. They're plotting to kill more of our people, and they benefit
from safe havens that allow them to train and operate -- particularly along the border of Pakistan and
Afghanistan.
And that's why America has a clear goal: to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda and its allies in
Afghanistan and Pakistan. We seek no bases, nor do we want to control these nations. Instead, we want to
work with international partners, including Russia, to help Afghans and Pakistanis advance their own
security and prosperity. And that's why I'm pleased that Russia has agreed to allow the United States to
supply our coalition forces through your territory. Neither America nor Russia has an interest in an
Afghanistan or Pakistan governed by the Taliban. It's time to work together on behalf of a different future -- a
future in which we leave behind the great game of the past and the conflict of the present; a future in which
all of us contribute to the security of Central Asia.
Now, beyond Afghanistan, America is committed to promoting the opportunity that will isolate extremists.
We are helping the Iraqi people build a better future, and leaving Iraq to the Iraqis. We're pursuing the goal
of two states, Israel and Palestine, living in peace and security. We're partnering with Muslim communities
around the world to advance education, health, and economic development. In each of these endeavors, I
believe that the Russian people share our goals, and will benefit from success -- and we need to partner
together.
Now, in addition to these security concerns, the third area that I will discuss is America's interest in global
prosperity. And since we have so many economists and future businessmen and women in the room, I know
this is of great interest to you.
We meet in the midst of the worst global recession in a generation. I believe that the free market is the
greatest force for creating and distributing wealth that the world has known. But wherever the market is
allowed to run rampant -- through excessive risk-taking, a lack of regulation, or corruption -- then all are
endangered, whether we live on the Mississippi or on the Volga.
In America, we're now taking unprecedented steps to jumpstart our economy and reform our system of
regulation. But just as no nation can wall itself off from the consequences of a global crisis, no one can
serve as the sole engine of global growth. You see, during your lives, something fundamental has changed.
And while this crisis has shown us the risks that come with change, that risk is overwhelmed by opportunity.
Think of what's possible today that was unthinkable two decades ago. A young woman with an Internet
connection in Bangalore, India can compete with anybody anywhere in the world. An entrepreneur with a
start-up company in Beijing can take his business global. An NES professor in Moscow can collaborate with
colleagues at Harvard or Stanford. That's good for all of us, because when prosperity is created in India,
that's a new market for our goods; when new ideas take hold in China, that pushes our businesses to
innovate; when new connections are forged among people, all of us are enriched.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
There is extraordinary potential for increased cooperation between Americans and Russians. We can
pursue trade that is free and fair and integrated with the wider world. We can boost investment that creates
jobs in both our countries, we can forge partnerships on energy that tap not only traditional resources, like
oil and gas, but new sources of energy that will drive growth and combat climate change. All of that,
Americans and Russians can do together.
Now, government can promote this cooperation, but ultimately individuals must advance this cooperation,
because the greatest resource of any nation in the 21st century is you. It's people; it's young people
especially. And the country which taps that resource will be the country that will succeed. That success
depends upon economies that function within the rule of law. As President Medvedev has rightly said, a
mature and effective legal system is a condition for sustained economic development. People everywhere
should have the right to do business or get an education without paying a bribe. Whether they are in
America or Russia or Africa or Latin America, that's not a American idea or a Russian idea -- that's how
people and countries will succeed in the 21st century.
And this brings me to the fourth issue that I will discuss -- America's interest in democratic governments that
protect the rights of their people.
By no means is America perfect. But it is our commitment to certain universal values which allows us to
correct our imperfections, to improve constantly, and to grow stronger over time. Freedom of speech and
assembly has allowed women, and minorities, and workers to protest for full and equal rights at a time when
they were denied. The rule of law and equal administration of justice has busted monopolies, shut down
political machines that were corrupt, ended abuses of power. Independent media have exposed corruption
at all levels of business and government. Competitive elections allow us to change course and hold our
leaders accountable. If our democracy did not advance those rights, then I, as a person of African ancestry,
wouldn't be able to address you as an American citizen, much less a President. Because at the time of our
founding, I had no rights -- people who looked like me. But it is because of that process that I can now stand
before you as President of the United States.
So around the world, America supports these values because they are moral, but also because they work.
The arc of history shows that governments which serve their own people survive and thrive; governments
which serve only their own power do not. Governments that represent the will of their people are far less
likely to descend into failed states, to terrorize their citizens, or to wage war on others. Governments that
promote the rule of law, subject their actions to oversight, and allow for independent institutions are more
dependable trading partners. And in our own history, democracies have been America's most enduring
allies, including those we once waged war with in Europe and Asia -- nations that today live with great
security and prosperity.
Now let me be clear: America cannot and should not seek to impose any system of government on any
other country, nor would we presume to choose which party or individual should run a country. And we
haven't always done what we should have on that front. Even as we meet here today, America supports
now the restoration of the democratically-elected President of Honduras, even though he has strongly
opposed American policies. We do so not because we agree with him. We do so because we respect the
universal principle that people should choose their own leaders, whether they are leaders we agree with or
not.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that leads me to the final area that I will discuss, which is America's interest in an international system
that advances cooperation while respecting the sovereignty of all nations.
State sovereignty must be a cornerstone of international order. Just as all states should have the right to
choose their leaders, states must have the right to borders that are secure, and to their own foreign policies.
That is true for Russia, just as it is true for the United States. Any system that cedes those rights will lead to
anarchy. That's why we must apply this principle to all nations -- and that includes nations like Georgia and
Ukraine. America will never impose a security arrangement on another country. For any country to become
a member of an organization like NATO, for example, a majority of its people must choose to; they must
undertake reforms; they must be able to contribute to the Alliance's mission. And let me be clear: NATO
should be seeking collaboration with Russia, not confrontation.
And more broadly, we need to foster cooperation and respect among all nations and peoples. As President
of the United States, I will work tirelessly to protect America's security and to advance our interests. But no
one nation can meet the challenges of the 21st century on its own, nor dictate its terms to the world. That is
something that America now understands, just as Russia understands. That's why America seeks an
international system that lets nations pursue their interests peacefully, especially when those interests
diverge; a system where the universal rights of human beings are respected, and violations of those rights
are opposed; a system where we hold ourselves to the same standards that we apply to other nations, with
clear rights and responsibilities for all.
There was a time when Roosevelt, Churchill, and Stalin could shape the world in one meeting. Those days
are over. The world is more complex today. Billions of people have found their voice, and seek their own
measure of prosperity and self-determination in every corner of the planet. Over the past two decades,
we've witnessed markets grow, wealth spread, and technology used to build -- not destroy. We've seen old
hatreds pass, illusions of differences between people lift and fade away; we've seen the human destiny in
the hands of more and more human beings who can shape their own destinies. Now, we must see that the
period of transition which you have lived through ushers in a new era in which nations live in peace, and
people realize their aspirations for dignity, security, and a better life for their children. That is America's
interest, and I believe that it is Russia's interest as well.
I know that this future can seem distant. Change is hard. In the words of that NES student back in 1993, the
real world is not so rational as on paper. But think of the change that has unfolded with the passing of time.
One hundred years ago, a czar ruled Russia, and Europe was a place of empire. When I was born,
segregation was still the law of the land in parts of America, and my father's Kenya was still a colony. When
you were born, a school like this would have been impossible, and the Internet was only known to a
privileged few.
You get to decide what comes next. You get to choose where change will take us, because the future does
not belong to those who gather armies on a field of battle or bury missiles in the ground; the future belongs
to young people with an education and the imagination to create. That is the source of power in this century.
And given all that has happened in your two decades on Earth, just imagine what you can create in the
years to come.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Every country charts its own course. Russia has cut its way through time like a mighty river through a
canyon, leaving an indelible mark on human history as it goes. As you move this story forward, look to the
future that can be built if we refuse to be burdened by the old obstacles and old suspicions; look to the
future that can be built if we partner on behalf of the aspirations we hold in common. Together, we can build
a world where people are protected, prosperity is enlarged, and our power truly serves progress. And it is all
in your hands. Good luck to all of you.
Thank you very much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329796" filename="Barack_Obama_-_NASA_21st_Century.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20NASA%2021st%20Century.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on Space Exploration in the 21st Century
delivered 15 April 2010, JFK Space Center, Merritt Island, Florida

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you.
I want to thank Senator Bill Nelson and NASA Administrator Charlie Bolden for their
extraordinary leadership. I want to recognize Dr. Buzz Aldrin as well, who’s in the house.
Four decades ago, Buzz became a legend. But in the four decades since he’s also been one of
America’s leading visionaries and authorities on human space flight.
Few people -- present company excluded -- can claim the expertise of Buzz and Bill and
Charlie when it comes to space exploration. I have to say that few people are as singularly
unimpressed by Air Force One as those three. Sure, it’s comfortable, but it can’t even reach
low Earth orbit. And that obviously is in striking contrast to the Falcon 9 rocket we just saw
on the launch pad, which will be tested for the very first time in the coming weeks.
A couple of other acknowledgments I want to make. We’ve got Congresswoman Sheila
Jackson Lee from Texas visiting us, a big supporter of the space program. My director, Office
of Science and Technology Policy -- in other words my chief science advisor -- John Holdren is
here. And most of all I want to acknowledge your congresswoman Suzanne Kosmas, because
every time I meet with her, including the flight down here, she reminds me of how important
our NASA programs are and how important this facility is. And she is fighting for every single
one of you and for her district and for the jobs in her district. And you should know that
you’ve got a great champion in Congresswoman Kosmas. Please give her a big round of
applause.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I also want to thank everybody for participating in today’s conference. And gathered here are
scientists, engineers, business leaders, public servants, and a few more astronauts as well.
Last but not least, I want to thank the men and women of NASA for welcoming me to the
Kennedy Space Center, and for your contributions not only to America, but to the world.
Here at the Kennedy Space Center we are surrounded by monuments and milestones of those
contributions. It was from here that NASA launched the missions of Mercury and Gemini and
Apollo. It was from here that Space Shuttle Discovery, piloted by Charlie Bolden, carried the
Hubble Telescope into orbit, allowing us to plumb the deepest recesses of our galaxy.
And I should point out, by the way, that in my private office just off the Oval, I’ve got the
picture of Jupiter from the Hubble. So thank you, Charlie, for helping to decorate my office.
It was from here that men and women, propelled by sheer nerve and talent, set about
pushing the boundaries of humanity’s reach.
That’s the story of NASA. And it’s a story that started a little more than half a century ago,
far from the Space Coast, in a remote and desolate region of what is now called Kazakhstan.
Because it was from there that the Soviet Union launched Sputnik, the first artificial satellite
to orbit the Earth, which was little more than a few pieces of metal with a transmitter and a
battery strapped to the top of a missile. But the world was stunned. Americans were
dumbfounded. The Soviets, it was perceived, had taken the lead in a race for which we were
not yet fully prepared.
But we caught up very quick. President Eisenhower signed legislation to create NASA and to
invest in science and math education, from grade school to graduate school. In 1961,
President Kennedy boldly declared before a joint session of Congress that the United States
would send a man to the Moon and return him safely to the Earth within the decade. And as a
nation, we set about meeting that goal, reaping rewards that have in the decades since
touched every facet of our lives. NASA was at the forefront. Many gave their careers to the
effort. And some have given far more.
In the years that have followed, the space race inspired a generation of scientists and
innovators, including, I’m sure, many of you. It’s contributed to immeasurable technological
advances that have improved our health and well-being, from satellite navigation to water
purification, from aerospace manufacturing to medical imaging. Although, I have to say,
during a meeting right before I came out on stage somebody said, you know, it’s more than
just Tang -- and I had to point out I actually really like Tang. I thought that was very cool.
And leading the world to space helped America achieve new heights of prosperity here on
Earth, while demonstrating the power of a free and open society to harness the ingenuity of
its people.
And on a personal note, I have been part of that generation so inspired by the space
program. 1961 was the year of my birth -- the year that Kennedy made his announcement.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And one of my earliest memories is sitting on my grandfather’s shoulders, waving a flag as
astronauts arrived in Hawaii. For me, the space program has always captured an essential
part of what it means to be an American -- reaching for new heights, stretching beyond what
previously did not seem possible. And so, as President, I believe that space exploration is not
a luxury, it’s not an afterthought in America’s quest for a brighter future -- it is an essential
part of that quest.
So today, I’d like to talk about the next chapter in this story. The challenges facing our space
program are different, and our imperatives for this program are different, than in decades
past. We’re no longer racing against an adversary. We’re no longer competing to achieve a
singular goal like reaching the Moon. In fact, what was once a global competition has long
since become a global collaboration. But while the measure of our achievements has changed
a great deal over the past 50 years, what we do -- or fail to do -- in seeking new frontiers is
no less consequential for our future in space and here on Earth.
So let me start by being extremely clear: I am 100 percent committed to the mission of
NASA and its future. Because broadening our capabilities in space will continue to serve our
society in ways that we can scarcely imagine. Because exploration will once more inspire
wonder in a new generation -- sparking passions and launching careers. And because,
ultimately, if we fail to press forward in the pursuit of discovery, we are ceding our future and
we are ceding that essential element of the American character.
I know there have been a number of questions raised about my administration’s plan for
space exploration, especially in this part of Florida where so many rely on NASA as a source of
income as well as a source of pride and community. And these questions come at a time of
transition, as the space shuttle nears its scheduled retirement after almost 30 years of
service. And understandably, this adds to the worries of folks concerned not only about their
own futures but about the future of the space program to which they’ve devoted their lives.
But I also know that underlying these concerns is a deeper worry, one that precedes not only
this plan but this administration. It stems from the sense that people in Washington -- driven
sometimes less by vision than by politics -- have for years neglected NASA’s mission and
undermined the work of the professionals who fulfill it. We’ve seen that in the NASA budget,
which has risen and fallen with the political winds.
But we can also see it in other ways: in the reluctance of those who hold office to set clear,
achievable objectives; to provide the resources to meet those objectives; and to justify not
just these plans but the larger purpose of space exploration in the 21st century.
All that has to change. And with the strategy I’m outlining today, it will. We start by
increasing NASA’s budget by $6 billion over the next five years, even -- I want people to
understand the context of this. This is happening even as we have instituted a freeze on
discretionary spending and sought to make cuts elsewhere in the budget.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So NASA, from the start, several months ago when I issued my budget, was one of the areas
where we didn’t just maintain a freeze but we actually increased funding by $6 billion. By
doing that we will ramp up robotic exploration of the solar system, including a probe of the
Sun’s atmosphere; new scouting missions to Mars and other destinations; and an advanced
telescope to follow Hubble, allowing us to peer deeper into the universe than ever before.
We will increase Earth-based observation to improve our understanding of our climate and our
world -- science that will garner tangible benefits, helping us to protect our environment for
future generations.
And we will extend the life of the International Space Station likely by more than five years,
while actually using it for its intended purpose: conducting advanced research that can help
improve the daily lives of people here on Earth, as well as testing and improving upon our
capabilities in space. This includes technologies like more efficient life support systems that
will help reduce the cost of future missions. And in order to reach the space station, we will
work with a growing array of private companies competing to make getting to space easier
and more affordable.
Now, I recognize that some have said it is unfeasible or unwise to work with the private sector
in this way. I disagree. The truth is, NASA has always relied on private industry to help
design and build the vehicles that carry astronauts to space, from the Mercury capsule that
carried John Glenn into orbit nearly 50 years ago, to the space shuttle Discovery currently
orbiting overhead. By buying the services of space transportation -- rather than the vehicles
themselves -- we can continue to ensure rigorous safety standards are met. But we will also
accelerate the pace of innovations as companies -- from young startups to established leaders
-- compete to design and build and launch new means of carrying people and materials out of
our atmosphere.
In addition, as part of this effort, we will build on the good work already done on the Orion
crew capsule. I’ve directed Charlie Bolden to immediately begin developing a rescue vehicle
using this technology, so we are not forced to rely on foreign providers if it becomes
necessary to quickly bring our people home from the International Space Station. And this
Orion effort will be part of the technological foundation for advanced spacecraft to be used in
future deep space missions. In fact, Orion will be readied for flight right here in this room.
Next, we will invest more than $3 billion to conduct research on an advanced “heavy lift
rocket” -- a vehicle to efficiently send into orbit the crew capsules, propulsion systems, and
large quantities of supplies needed to reach deep space. In developing this new vehicle, we
will not only look at revising or modifying older models; we want to look at new designs, new
materials, new technologies that will transform not just where we can go but what we can do
when we get there. And we will finalize a rocket design no later than 2015 and then begin to
build it. And I want everybody to understand: That’s at least two years earlier than
previously planned -- and that’s conservative, given that the previous program was behind
schedule and over budget.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
At the same time, after decades of neglect, we will increase investment -- right away -- in
other groundbreaking technologies that will allow astronauts to reach space sooner and more
often, to travel farther and faster for less cost, and to live and work in space for longer
periods of time more safely. That means tackling major scientific and technological
challenges.
How do we shield astronauts from radiation on longer missions? How do we harness
resources on distant worlds? How do we supply spacecraft with energy needed for these farreaching journeys? These are questions that we can answer and will answer. And these are
the questions whose answers no doubt will reap untold benefits right here on Earth.
So the point is what we’re looking for is not just to continue on the same path -- we want to
leap into the future; we want major breakthroughs; a transformative agenda for NASA.
Now, yes, pursuing this new strategy will require that we revise the old strategy. In part, this
is because the old strategy -- including the Constellation program -- was not fulfilling its
promise in many ways. That’s not just my assessment; that’s also the assessment of a panel
of respected non-partisan experts charged with looking at these issues closely. Now, despite
this, some have had harsh words for the decisions we’ve made, including some individuals
who I’ve got enormous respect and admiration for.
But what I hope is, is that everybody will take a look at what we are planning, consider the
details of what we’ve laid out, and see the merits as I’ve described them. The bottom line is
nobody is more committed to manned space flight, to human exploration of space than I am.
But we’ve got to do it in a smart way, and we can’t just keep on doing the same old things
that we’ve been doing and thinking that somehow is going to get us to where we want to go.
Some have said, for instance, that this plan gives up our leadership in space by failing to
produce plans within NASA to reach low Earth orbit, instead of relying on companies and other
countries. But we will actually reach space faster and more often under this new plan, in
ways that will help us improve our technological capacity and lower our costs, which are both
essential for the long-term sustainability of space flight. In fact, through our plan, we’ll be
sending many more astronauts to space over the next decade.
There are also those who criticized our decision to end parts of Constellation as one that will
hinder space exploration below [sic] low Earth orbit. But it’s precisely by investing in
groundbreaking research and innovative companies that we will have the potential to rapidly
transform our capabilities -- even as we build on the important work already completed,
through projects like Orion, for future missions. And unlike the previous program, we are
setting a course with specific and achievable milestones.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Early in the next decade, a set of crewed flights will test and prove the systems required for
exploration beyond low Earth orbit. And by 2025, we expect new spacecraft designed for long
journeys to allow us to begin the first-ever crewed missions beyond the Moon into deep
space. So we’ll start -- we’ll start by sending astronauts to an asteroid for the first time in
history. By the mid-2030s, I believe we can send humans to orbit Mars and return them
safely to Earth. And a landing on Mars will follow. And I expect to be around to see it.
But I want to repeat -- I want to repeat this: Critical to deep space exploration will be the
development of breakthrough propulsion systems and other advanced technologies. So I’m
challenging NASA to break through these barriers. And we’ll give you the resources to break
through these barriers. And I know you will, with ingenuity and intensity, because that’s what
you’ve always done.
Now, I understand that some believe that we should attempt a return to the surface of the
Moon first, as previously planned. But I just have to say pretty bluntly here: We’ve been
there before. Buzz has been there. There’s a lot more of space to explore, and a lot more to
learn when we do. So I believe it’s more important to ramp up our capabilities to reach -- and
operate at -- a series of increasingly demanding targets, while advancing our technological
capabilities with each step forward. And that’s what this strategy does. And that’s how we
will ensure that our leadership in space is even stronger in this new century than it was in the
last.
Finally, I want to say a few words about jobs. Suzanne pointed out to me that the last time I
was here, I made a very clear promise that I would help in the transition into a new program
to make sure that people who are already going through a tough time here in this region were
helped. And despite some reports to the contrary, my plan will add more than 2,500 jobs
along the Space Coast in the next two years compared to the plan under the previous
administration. So I want to make that point.
We’re going to modernize the Kennedy Space Center, creating jobs as we upgrade launch
facilities. And there’s potential for even more jobs as companies in Florida and across America
compete to be part of a new space transportation industry. And some of those industry
leaders are here today. This holds the promise of generating more than 10,000 jobs
nationwide over the next few years. And many of these jobs will be created right here in
Florida because this is an area primed to lead in this competition.
Now, it’s true -- there are Floridians who will see their work on the shuttle end as the program
winds down. This is based on a decision that was made six years ago, not six months ago,
but that doesn’t make it any less painful for families and communities affected as this decision
becomes reality.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I’m proposing -- in part because of strong lobbying by Bill and by Suzanne, as well as
Charlie -- I’m proposing a $40 million initiative led by a high-level team from the White
House, NASA, and other agencies to develop a plan for regional economic growth and job
creation. And I expect this plan to reach my desk by August 15th. It’s an effort that will help
prepare this already skilled workforce for new opportunities in the space industry and beyond.
So this is the next chapter that we can write together here at NASA. We will partner with
industry. We will invest in cutting-edge research and technology. We will set far-reaching
milestones and provide the resources to reach those milestones. And step by step, we will
push the boundaries not only of where we can go but what we can do.
Fifty years after the creation of NASA, our goal is no longer just a destination to reach. Our
goal is the capacity for people to work and learn and operate and live safely beyond the Earth
for extended periods of time, ultimately in ways that are more sustainable and even
indefinite. And in fulfilling this task, we will not only extend humanity’s reach in space -- we
will strengthen America’s leadership here on Earth.
Now, I’ll close by saying this. I know that some Americans have asked a question that’s
particularly apt on Tax Day: Why spend money on NASA at all? Why spend money solving
problems in space when we don’t lack for problems to solve here on the ground? And
obviously our country is still reeling from the worst economic turmoil we’ve known in
generations. We have massive structural deficits that have to be closed in the coming years.
But you and I know this is a false choice. We have to fix our economy. We need to close our
deficits. But for pennies on the dollar, the space program has fueled jobs and entire
industries. For pennies on the dollar, the space program has improved our lives, advanced
our society, strengthened our economy, and inspired generations of Americans. And I have
no doubt that NASA can continue to fulfill this role. But that is why -- but I want to say clearly
to those of you who work for NASA, but to the entire community that has been so supportive
of the space program in this area: That is exactly why it’s so essential that we pursue a new
course and that we revitalize NASA and its mission -- not just with dollars, but with clear aims
and a larger purpose.
Now, little more than 40 years ago, astronauts descended the nine-rung ladder of the lunar
module called Eagle, and allowed their feet to touch the dusty surface of the Earth’s only
Moon. This was the culmination of a daring and perilous gambit -- of an endeavor that
pushed the boundaries of our knowledge, of our technological prowess, of our very capacity as
human beings to solve problems. It wasn’t just the greatest achievement in NASA’s history -it was one of the greatest achievements in human history.
And the question for us now is whether that was the beginning of something or the end of
something. I choose to believe it was only the beginning.
So thank you. God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329885" filename="Barack_Obama_-_National_Chamber_of_Commerce.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20National%20Chamber%20of%20Commerce.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the U.S. Chamber of Congress
delivered 7 February 2011, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much, Tom, for the gracious introduction. I want to make a few other acknowledgments. To
Tom Bell, the Chamber Board President, thank you for helping to organize this. There are some members of
my administration I want to make sure are introduced. My Chief of Staff, Bill Daley, is here. Senior advisor
Valerie Jarrett, who is interfacing with many of you and has gotten terrific advice from many of you, is here
as well. Secretary Ray LaHood, our Transportation Secretary. Ambassador Ron Kirk, who is working hard to
get trade deals around the world. Our Small Business Administration Administrator Karen Mills. My director
of the National Economic Council, Gene Sperling, is here. And I also want to make mention, Fred Hochberg,
our Export-Import Bank Chairman; Elizabeth Littlefield, the Overseas Private Investment Corporation
President. And I also want to acknowledge a good friend, Paul Volcker, the outgoing chair of the President's
Economic Recovery Advisory Board. Thank you all for being here.
Now, Tom, it is good to be here today at the Chamber of Commerce. I'm here in the interest of being more
neighborly. I strolled over from across the street, and look, maybe if we had brought over a fruitcake when I
first moved in, we would have gotten off to a better start. But I'm going to make up for it.
The truth is, this isn't the first time I've been to the Chamber, or the first time that we've exchanged ideas.
Over the last two years, I've sought advice from many of you as we were grappling with the worst recession
most of us have ever known. It's a recession that led to some very difficult decisions. For many of you, that
meant restructuring and branch closings and layoffs that I know were very painful to make. For my
administration, it meant a series of emergency measures that I would not have undertaken under normal
circumstances, but that were necessary to stop our economy from falling off a cliff.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, on some issues, like the Recovery Act, we've found common cause. On other issues, we've had some
pretty strong disagreements. But I'm here today because I am convinced, as Tom mentioned in his
introduction, that we can and we must work together. Whatever differences we may have, I know that all of
us share a deep, abiding belief in this country, a belief in our people, a belief in the principles that have
made America's economy the envy of the world.
America's success didn't happen overnight, and it didn't happen by accident. It happened because [of] the
freedom that has allowed good ideas to flourish, that has allowed capitalism to thrive; it happened because
of the conviction that in this country hard work should be rewarded and that opportunity should be there for
anybody who's willing to reach for it. And because it happened at every juncture in our history -- not just
once, not just twice, but over and over again -- we came together to remake ourselves; we came together as
one nation and did what was necessary to win the future. That is why I am so confident that we will win the
future again.
That's the challenge that we face today. We still have, by far, the world's largest and most vibrant economy.
We have the most productive workers, the finest universities and the freest markets. The men and women in
this room are living testimony that American industry is still the source of the most dynamic companies, and
the most ingenious entrepreneurs.
But we also know that with the march of technology over the last few decades, the competition for jobs and
businesses has grown fierce. The globalization of our economy means that businesses can now open up a
shop, employ workers and produce their goods wherever an Internet connection exists. Tasks that were
once done by 1,000 workers can now be done by 100 or in some cases even 10. And the truth is, as
countries like China and India and Brazil grow and develop larger middle classes, it's profitable for global
companies to aggressively pursue these markets and, at times, to set up facilities in these countries.
These forces are as unstoppable as they are powerful. But combined with a brutal and devastating
recession, these forces have also shaken the faith of the American people -- in the institutions of business
and government. They see a widening chasm of wealth and opportunity in this country, and they wonder if
the American Dream is slipping away.
They wonder if the middle class, rather than expanding as it has through our lifetimes, is in the midst of an
inexorable contraction. And we can't ignore these concerns. We have to renew people's faith in the promise
of this country -- that this is a place where you can make it if you try. And we have to do this together:
business and government; workers and CEOs; Democrats and Republicans.
We know what it will take for America to win the future. We need to out-innovate, we need to out-educate,
we need to out-build our competitors. We need an economy that's based not on what we consume and
borrow from other nations, but what we make and what we sell around the world. We need to make America
the best place on Earth to do business.
And this is a job for all of us. As a government, we will help lay the foundation for you to grow and innovate
and succeed. We will upgrade our transportation and communication networks so you can move goods and
information more quickly and more cheaply. We'll invest in education so that you can hire the most skilled,
talented workers in the world. And we'll work to knock down barriers that make it harder for you to compete,
from the tax code to the regulatory system.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
But I want to be clear: Even as we make America the best place on Earth to do business, businesses also
have a responsibility to America.
I understand the challenges you face. I understand you are under incredible pressure to cut costs and keep
your margins up. I understand the significance of your obligations to your shareholders and the pressures
that are created by quarterly reports. I get it.
But as we work with you to make America a better place to do business, I'm hoping that all of you are
thinking what you can do for America. Ask yourselves what you can do to hire more American workers, what
you can do to support the American economy and invest in this nation. That's what I want to talk about
today -- the responsibilities we all have -- the mutual responsibilities we have -- to secure the future that we
all share.
Now, as a country, we have a responsibility to encourage American innovation. I talked about this quite a bit
at my State of the Union.
Companies like yours have always driven the discovery of new products and new ideas. You do it better
than anybody. But what you also know is that it's not always profitable to -- in the short-term, at least -- for
you to invest in basic research. It's very expensive, and the payoffs are not always clear and they're not
always localized. And that's why government has traditionally helped invest in this kind of science, planting
the seeds that ultimately grew into technologies from the computer chips to the Internet.
That's why we're making investments today in the next generation of big ideas -- in biotechnology, in
information technology and in clean energy technology. We're reforming our patent system so innovations
can move more quickly to market. Steve Case is heading up a new partnership called Startup America to
help entrepreneurs turn new ideas into new businesses and new jobs. And I've also proposed a bigger,
permanent tax credit for all the research and development your companies do in this country. I believe that
is a priority.
We also have a responsibility as a nation to provide our people with -- and our businesses -- with the
fastest, most reliable way to move goods and information. The costs to business from outdated and
inadequate infrastructure is enormous. And that's what we have right now -- outdated, inadequate
infrastructure.
And any of you that have been traveling to other countries, you know it, you see it, and it affects your bottom
lines. That's why I want to put more people to work rebuilding crumbling roads, rebuilding our bridges. That's
why I've proposed connecting 80 percent of the country with high-speed -- to high-speed rail, and making it
possible for companies to put high-speed Internet coverage in the reach of virtually all Americans.
You understand the importance of this. The fact is, the Chamber of Commerce and the AFL-CIO don't agree
on a whole lot. Tom Donohue and Richard Trumka are not Facebook friends. Well, maybe -- I don't think
you are anyway. I didn't check on this, but -- but they agree on the need to build a 21st-century
infrastructure. And I want to thank the Chamber for pushing Congress to make more infrastructure
investments, and to do so in the most cost-effective way possible: with tax dollars that leverage private
capital, and with projects that are determined not by politics, but by what's best for our economy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Third responsibility that we have as a nation is to invest in the skills and education of our young people. If
we expect companies to do business and hire in America, America needs a pool of trained, talented workers
that can out-compete anybody in the world. And that's why we're reforming K-12 education; that's why we're
training 100,000 new math and science teachers; that's why we're making college more affordable, and
revitalizing our community college system.
Recently I visited GE in Schenectady, which has partnered with a local community college. And while
students train for jobs available at the nearby GE plant, they earn a paycheck and they've got their tuition
covered. And as a result, young people can find work, GE can fill high-skill positions, and the entire region
has become more attractive to businesses. It's a win-win for everybody, and it's something we're trying to
duplicate across the country.
Now, to make room for these investments in education, in innovation, in infrastructure, government also has
a responsibility to cut spending that we just can't afford. That's why I've promised to veto any bill that's
larded up with earmarks. That's why I've proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next five
years. Understand what this means. This would reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next
decade, and bring this spending -- domestic discretionary spending -- down to the lowest share of our
economy since Eisenhower was President. That was a long time ago.
Now, it's not going to be enough. We're going to have to do more. Because the driving force on our deficits
are entitlements spending. And that's going to require both parties to work together, because those are
some tough problems that we're going to have to solve. And I am eager to work with both parties and with
the Chamber to take additional steps across the budget to put our nation on a sounder fiscal footing.
By stopping spending on things we don't need, we can make investments in the things that we do need, the
same way families do. If they've got a fiscal problem, if they've got to tighten their belt, they don't stop
paying for Johnny to go to college. They cut out things they don't need, but they still make investments in
the thing that are going to make sure we win the future. And that's what we have to do as a country: make
some smart choices -- tough choices, but smart ones.
Now, in addition to making government more affordable, we're also making it more effective and more
consumer-friendly. We're trying to run the government a little bit more like you run your business -- with
better technology and faster services. So in the coming months, my administration will develop a proposal to
merge, consolidate and reorganize the federal government in a way that best serves the goal of a more
competitive America. And we want to start with the 12 different agencies that deal with America's exports. If
we hope to help our businesses sell more goods around the world, we should ensure we're all pulling in the
same direction. And frankly, with 12 different agencies in charge, nobody is in charge. So we're going to fix
that as an example of how we can make a government that's more responsive to the American people and
to American businesses.
Which brings me to the final responsibility of government: breaking down some of the barriers that stand in
the way of your success. As far as exports are concerned, that means seeking new opportunities and
opening new markets for your goods. And I will tell you I will go anywhere anytime to be a booster for
American businesses, American workers and American products. We recently signed -- and I don't charge a
commission.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We recently signed export deals with India and China that will support more than 250,000 jobs here in the
United States. We finalized a trade agreement with South Korea that will support at least 70,000 American
jobs. And by the way, it's a deal that has unprecedented support from business and labor, Democrats and
Republicans. That's the kind of deal that I will be looking for as we pursue trade agreements with Panama
and Colombia, as we work to bring Russia into the international trading system. Those are going to be our
top priorities because we believe Americans have the best products and the best businesses, and if we're
out there selling and we're out there hustling, there's no reason why we can't do a lot better than we're doing
right now when it comes to our exports.
Now, another barrier government can remove -- and I hear a lot about this from many of you -- is a
burdensome corporate tax code with one of the highest rates in the world. You know how it goes: because
of various loopholes and carve-outs that have built up over the years, some industries pay an average rate
that is four or five times higher than others. Companies are taxed heavily for making investments with
equity, yet the tax code actually pays companies to invest using leverage. As a result, you've got too many
companies ending up making decisions based on what their tax director says instead of what their engineer
designs or what their factories produce. And that puts our entire economy at a disadvantage. We need
something smarter, something simpler, something fairer. That's why I want to lower the corporate rate and
eliminate these loopholes to pay for it, so that it doesn't add a dime to our deficit. And I'm asking for your
help in this fight. I think it can be done.
Which brings me to the last barriers we're trying to remove, and those are outdated and unnecessary
regulations. I've ordered a government-wide review, and if there are rules on the books that are needlessly
stifling job creation and economic growth, we will fix them.
Already we're dramatically cutting down on the paperwork that saddles businesses with huge administrative
costs. We're improving the way FDA evaluates things like medical devices, to get innovative and lifesaving
treatments to market faster. And the EPA, based on the need for further scientific analysis, delayed the
greenhouse gas permitting rules for biomass.
I've also ordered agencies to find ways to make regulations more flexible for small businesses. And we've
turned a tangle of fuel economy regulations and pending lawsuits into a single standard that will reduce our
dependence on foreign oil, save consumers money at the pump and give car companies the certainty that
they need -- all negotiated by the various stakeholders without the need for congressional legislation.
But ultimately, winning the future is not just about what the government can do for you to succeed. It's also
about what you can do to help America succeed.
So we were just talking about regulations. Even as we eliminate burdensome regulations, America's
businesses have a responsibility as well to recognize that there are some basic safeguards, some basic
standards that are necessary to protect the American people from harm or exploitation. Not every regulation
is bad. Not every regulation is burdensome on business. A lot of the regulations that are out there are things
that all of us welcome in our lives.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Few of us would want to live in a society without rules that keep our air and water clean; that give
consumers the confidence to do everything from investing in financial markets to buying groceries. And the
fact is, when standards like these have been proposed in the past, opponents have often warned that they
would be an assault on business and free enterprise. We can look at the history in this country. Early drug
companies argued the bill creating the FDA would "practically destroy the sale of … remedies in the United
States." That didn't happen. Auto executives predicted that having to install seatbelts would bring the
downfall of their industry. It didn't happen. The President of the American Bar Association denounced child
labor laws as "a communistic effort to nationalize children." That's a quote.
None of these things came to pass. In fact, companies adapt and standards often spark competition and
innovation. I was travelling when I went up to Penn State to look at some clean energy hubs that have been
set up. I was with Steve Chu, my Secretary of Energy. And he won a Nobel Prize in physics, so when you're
in conversations with him you catch about one out of every four things he says.
But he started talking about energy efficiency and about refrigerators, and he pointed out that the
government set modest targets a couple decades ago to start increasing efficiency over time. They were
well thought through; they weren't radical. Companies competed to hit these markers. And they hit them
every time, and then exceeded them. And as a result, a typical fridge now costs half as much and uses a
quarter of the energy that it once did -- and you don't have to defrost, chipping at that stuff -- and then
putting the warm water inside the freezer and all that stuff. It saves families and businesses billions of
dollars.
So regulations didn't destroy the industry; it enhanced it and it made our lives better -- if they're smart, if
they're well designed. And that's our goal, is to work with you to think through how do we design necessary
regulations in a smart way and get rid of regulations that have outlived their usefulness, or don't work.
I also have to point out the perils of too much regulation are also matched by the dangers of too little. And
we saw that in the financial crisis, where the absence of sound rules of the road, that wasn't good for
business. Even if you weren't in the financial sector it wasn't good for business. And that's why, with the help
of Paul Volcker, who is here today, we passed a set of common-sense reforms.
The same can be said of health insurance reform. We simply could not continue to accept a status quo
that's made our entire economy less competitive, as we've paid more per person for health care than any
other nation on Earth. Nobody is even close. And we couldn't accept a broken system where insurance
companies could drop people because they got sick, or families went into bankruptcy because of medical
bills.
I know that folks here have concerns about this law. And I understand it. If you're running a business right
now and you're seeing these escalating health care costs, your instinct is if I've got even more laws on top
of me, that's going to increase my costs even more. I understand that suspicion, that skepticism.
But the non-partisan congressional watchdogs at the CBO estimate that health care tax credits will be worth
nearly $40 billion for small businesses over the next decade -- $40 billion, directly to small businesses who
are doing the right thing by their employees.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
And experts -- not just from the government, but also those commissioned by the Business Roundtable -suggest that health insurance reform could ultimately save large employers anywhere from $2,000 to $3,000
per family -- your employees and your bottom line.
I've said in the State of the Union and I'll repeat here today: I am willing and happy to look at other ideas to
improve the law, including incentives to improve patient safety and medical malpractice reforms. And I want
to correct a flaw that's already placed an unnecessary bookkeeping burden on too many small businesses,
and I appreciate the Chamber's help in doing that.
But we have to recognize that some common-sense regulations often will make sense for your businesses,
as well as your families, as well as your neighbors, as well as your coworkers. Of course, your responsibility
goes beyond recognizing the need for certain standards and safeguards. If we're fighting to reform the tax
code and increase exports to help you compete, the benefits can't just translate into greater profits and
bonuses for those at the top. They have to be shared by American workers, who need to know that
expanding trade and opening markets will lift their standards of living as well as your bottom line.
We can't go back to the kind of economy and culture that we saw in the years leading up to the recession,
where growth and gains in productivity just didn't translate into rising incomes and opportunity for the middle
class. That's not something necessarily we can legislate, but it's something that all of us have to take
responsibility for thinking about. How do we make sure that everybody's got a stake in trade, everybody's
got a stake in increasing exports, everybody's got a stake in rising productivity? Because ordinary folks end
up seeing their standards of living rise as well. That's always been the American promise. That's what JFK
meant when he said, "A rising tide lifts all boats." Too many boats have been left behind, stuck in the mud.
And if we as a nation are going to invest in innovation, that innovation should lead to new jobs and
manufacturing on our shores. The end result of tax breaks and investments can't simply be that new
breakthroughs and technologies are discovered here in America, but then the manufacturing takes place
overseas. That, too, breaks the social compact. It makes people feel as if the game is fixed and they're not
benefiting from the extraordinary discoveries that take place here.
So the key to our success has never been just developing new ideas; it's also been making new products.
So Intel pioneers the microchip, then puts thousands to work building them in Silicon Valley. Henry Ford
perfects the assembly line, and then puts a generation to work in the factories of Detroit. That's how we built
the largest middle class in the world. Those folks working in those plants, they go out and they buy a Ford.
They buy a personal computer. And the economy grows for everyone. And that's how we'll create the base
of knowledge and skills that propel the next inventions and the next ideas.
Right now, businesses across this country are proving that America can compete. Caterpillar is opening a
new plant to build excavators in Texas that used to be shipped from Japan. In Tennessee, Whirlpool is
opening their first new U.S. factory in more than a decade. Dow is building a new plant in Michigan to
manufacture batteries for electric vehicles. A company called Geomagic, a software maker, decided to close
down its overseas centers in China and Europe and move their R&D here to the United States. These
companies are bringing jobs back to our shores. And that's good for everybody.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
So if I've got one message, my message is now is the time to invest in America. Now is the time to invest in
America. Today, American companies have nearly $2 trillion sitting on their balance sheets. And I know that
many of you have told me that you're waiting for demand to rise before you get off the sidelines and expand,
and that with millions of Americans out of work, demand has risen more slowly than any of us would like.
We're in this together, but many of your own economists and salespeople are now forecasting a healthy
increase in demand. So I just want to encourage you to get in the game. As part of the bipartisan tax deal
we negotiated, with the support of the Chamber, businesses can immediately expense 100 percent of their
capital investments. And as all of you know, it's investments made now that will pay off as the economy
rebounds. And as you hire, you know that more Americans working will mean more sales for your
companies. It will mean more demand for your products and services. It will mean higher profits for your
companies. We can create a virtuous circle.
And if there's a reason you don't share my confidence, if there's a reason you don't believe that this is the
time to get off the sidelines -- to hire and to invest -- I want to know about it. I want to fix it. That's why I've
asked Jeff Immelt of GE to lead a new council of business leaders and outside experts so that we're getting
the best advice on what you're facing out there -- and we'll be holding our first meeting two weeks from now,
on the 24th. So you can get your emails in early, with your ideas, with your thoughts about how we keep
moving forward to create this virtuous cycle.
Together, I am confident we can win the competition for new jobs and industries. And I know you share my
enthusiasm. Here's one thing I know. For all the disagreements, Tom, that we may have sometimes on
issues, I know you love this country. I know you want America to succeed just as badly as I do.
So, yes, we'll have some disagreements; and, yes, we'll see things differently at times. But we're all
Americans. And that spirit of patriotism, and that sense of mutual regard and common obligation, that has
carried us through far harder times than the ones we've just been through.
And I'm reminded, toward the end of the 1930s, amidst the Depression, the looming prospect of war, FDR,
President Roosevelt, realized he would need to form a new partnership with business if we were going to
become what he would later call the "arsenal of democracy." And as you can imagine, the relationship
between the President and business leaders during the course of the Depression had been rocky at times.
They'd grown somewhat fractured by the New Deal.
So Roosevelt reached out to businesses, and business leaders answered the call to serve their country.
After years of working at cross purposes, the result was one of the most productive collaborations between
the public and private sectors in American history.
Some, like the head of GM, hadn't previously known the President, and if anything had seen him as an
adversary. But he gathered his family and he explained that he was going to head up what would become
the War Production Board. And he said to his family, "This country has been good to me, and I want to pay
it back." I want to pay it back.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And in the years that followed, automobile factories converted to making planes and tanks. And corset
factories made grenade belts. A toy company made compasses. A pinball machine maker turned out shells.
1941 would see the greatest expansion of manufacturing in the history of America. And not only did this help
us win the war; it led to millions of new jobs and helped produce the great American middle class.
So we have faced hard times before. We have faced moments of tumult and moments of change. And we
know what to do. We know how to succeed. We are Americans, and as we have done throughout our
history, I have every confidence that once again we will rise to this occasion; that we can come together, we
can adapt and we can thrive in this changing economy. And we need to look no further than the innovative
companies in this room. If we can harness your potential and the potential of your people across this
country, I think there's no stopping us.
So thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329665" filename="Barack_Obama_-_National_Security_National_Archives.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20National%20Security%20National%20Archives.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on American Values and National Security

Delivered 21 May 2009, National Archives, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning, everybody. Please be seated. Thank you all for being here. Let me just acknowledge the
presence of some of my outstanding Cabinet members and advisors. We've got our Secretary of State,
Hillary Clinton. We have our CIA Director Leon Panetta. We have our Secretary of Defense William Gates;
Secretary Napolitano of Department of Homeland Security; Attorney General Eric Holder; my National
Security Advisor Jim Jones. And I want to especially thank our Acting Archivist of the United States,
Adrienne Thomas.
I also want to acknowledge several members of the House who have great interest in intelligence matters. I
want to thank Congressman Reyes, Congressman Hoekstra, Congressman King, as well as Congressman
Thompson, for being here today. Thank you so much.
These are extraordinary times for our country. We're confronting a historic economic crisis. We're fighting
two wars. We face a range of challenges that will define the way that Americans will live in the 21st
century. So there's no shortage of work to be done, or responsibilities to bear.
And we've begun to make progress. Just this week, we've taken steps to protect American consumers and
homeowners, and to reform our system of government contracting so that we better protect our people while
spending our money more wisely. The -- it's a good bill. The engines of our economy are slowly beginning
to turn, and we're working towards historic reform on health care and on energy. I want to say to the
members of Congress, I welcome all the extraordinary work that has been done over these last four months
on these and other issues.
In the midst of all these challenges, however, my single most important responsibility as President is to keep
the American people safe. It's the first thing that I think about when I wake up in the morning. It's the last
thing that I think about when I go to sleep at night.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And this responsibility is only magnified in an era when an extremist ideology threatens our people, and
technology gives a handful of terrorists the potential to do us great harm. We are less than eight years
removed from the deadliest attack on American soil in our history. We know that al Qaeda is actively
planning to attack us again. We know that this threat will be with us for a long time, and that we must use all
elements of our power to defeat it.
Already, we've taken several steps to achieve that goal. For the first time since 2002, we're providing the
necessary resources and strategic direction to take the fight to the extremists who attacked us on 9/11 in
Afghanistan and Pakistan. We're investing in the 21st century military and intelligence capabilities that will
allow us to stay one step ahead of a nimble enemy. We have re-energized a global non-proliferation regime
to deny the world's most dangerous people access to the world's deadliest weapons. And we've launched
an effort to secure all loose nuclear materials within four years. We're better protecting our border, and
increasing our preparedness for any future attack or natural disaster. We're building new partnerships
around the world to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda and its affiliates. And we have renewed
American diplomacy so that we once again have the strength and standing to truly lead the world.
These steps are all critical to keeping America secure. But I believe with every fiber of my being that in the
long run we also cannot keep this country safe unless we enlist the power of our most fundamental values.
The documents that we hold in this very hall -- the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the Bill of
Rights -- these are not simply words written into aging parchment. They are the foundation of liberty and
justice in this country, and a light that shines for all who seek freedom, fairness, equality, and dignity around
the world.
I stand here today as someone whose own life was made possible by these documents. My father came to
these shores in search of the promise that they offered. My mother made me rise before dawn to learn their
truths when I lived as a child in a foreign land. My own American journey was paved by generations of
citizens who gave meaning to those simple words -- "to form a more perfect union." I've studied the
Constitution as a student, I've taught it as a teacher, I've been bound by it as a lawyer and a legislator. I
took an oath to preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution as Commander-in-Chief, and as a citizen, I
know that we must never, ever, turn our back on its enduring principles for expedience sake.
I make this claim not simply as a matter of idealism. We uphold our most cherished values not only
because doing so is right, but because it strengthens our country and it keeps us safe. Time and again, our
values have been our best national security asset -- in war and peace; in times of ease and in eras of
upheaval.
Fidelity to our values is the reason why the United States of America grew from a small string of colonies
under the writ of an empire to the strongest nation in the world.
It's the reason why enemy soldiers have surrendered to us in battle, knowing they'd receive better treatment
from America's Armed Forces than from their own government.
It's the reason why America has benefitted from strong alliances that amplified our power, and drawn a
sharp, moral contrast with our adversaries.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It's the reason why we've been able to overpower the iron fist of fascism and outlast the iron curtain of
communism, and enlist free nations and free peoples everywhere in the common cause and common effort
of liberty.
From Europe to the Pacific, we've been the nation that has shut down torture chambers and replaced
tyranny with the rule of law. That is who we are. And where terrorists offer only the injustice of disorder and
destruction, America must demonstrate that our values and our institutions are more resilient than a hateful
ideology.
After 9/11, we knew that we had entered a new era -- that enemies who did not abide by any law of war
would present new challenges to our application of the law; that our government would need new tools to
protect the American people, and that these tools would have to allow us to prevent attacks instead of
simply prosecuting those who try to carry them out.
Unfortunately, faced with an uncertain threat, our government made a series of hasty decisions. I believe
that many of these decisions were motivated by a sincere desire to protect the American people. But I also
believe that all too often our government made decisions based on fear rather than foresight; that all too
often our government trimmed facts and evidence to fit ideological predispositions. Instead of strategically
applying our power and our principles, too often we set those principles aside as luxuries that we could no
longer afford. And during this season of fear, too many of us -- Democrats and Republicans, politicians,
journalists, and citizens -- fell silent.
In other words, we went off course. And this is not my assessment alone. It was an assessment that was
shared by the American people who nominated candidates for President from both major parties who,
despite our many differences, called for a new approach -- one that rejected torture and one that recognized
the imperative of closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay.
Now let me be clear: We are indeed at war with al Qaeda and its affiliates. We do need to update our
institutions to deal with this threat. But we must do so with an abiding confidence in the rule of law and due
process; in checks and balances and accountability. For reasons that I will explain, the decisions that were
made over the last eight years established an ad hoc legal approach for fighting terrorism that was neither
effective nor sustainable -- a framework that failed to rely on our legal traditions and time-tested institutions,
and that failed to use our values as a compass. And that's why I took several steps upon taking office to
better protect the American people.
First, I banned the use of so-called enhanced interrogation techniques by the United States of America.
I know some have argued that brutal methods like waterboarding were necessary to keep us safe. I could
not disagree more. As Commander-in-Chief, I see the intelligence. I bear the responsibility for keeping this
country safe. And I categorically reject the assertion that these are the most effective means of
interrogation. What's more, they undermine the rule of law. They alienate us in the world. They serve as a
recruitment tool for terrorists, and increase the will of our enemies to fight us, while decreasing the will of
others to work with America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
They risk the lives of our troops by making it less likely that others will surrender to them in battle, and more
likely that Americans will be mistreated if they are captured. In short, they did not advance our war and
counterterrorism efforts -- they undermined them, and that is why I ended them once and for all.
Now, I should add, the arguments against these techniques did not originate from my administration. As
Senator McCain once said, torture "serves as a great propaganda tool for those who recruit people to fight
against us." And even under President Bush, there was recognition among members of his own
administration -- including a Secretary of State, other senior officials, and many in the military and
intelligence community -- that those who argued for these tactics were on the wrong side of the debate, and
the wrong side of history. That's why we must leave these methods where they belong -- in the past. They
are not who we are, and they are not America.
The second decision that I made was to order the closing of the prison camp at Guantanamo Bay.
For over seven years, we have detained hundreds of people at Guantanamo. During that time, the system
of military commissions that were in place at Guantanamo succeeded in convicting a grand total of three
suspected terrorists. Let me repeat that: three convictions in over seven years. Instead of bringing
terrorists to justice, efforts at prosecution met setback after setback, cases lingered on, and in 2006 the
Supreme Court invalidated the entire system. Meanwhile, over 525 detainees were released from
Guantanamo under not my administration, under the previous administration. Let me repeat that: Twothirds of the detainees were released before I took office and ordered the closure of Guantanamo.
There is also no question that Guantanamo set back the moral authority that is America's strongest currency
in the world. Instead of building a durable framework for the struggle against al Qaeda that drew upon our
deeply held values and traditions, our government was defending positions that undermined the rule of law.
In fact, part of the rationale for establishing Guantanamo in the first place was the misplaced notion that a
prison there would be beyond the law -- a proposition that the Supreme Court soundly rejected. Meanwhile,
instead of serving as a tool to counter terrorism, Guantanamo became a symbol that helped al Qaeda
recruit terrorists to its cause. Indeed, the existence of Guantanamo likely created more terrorists around the
world than it ever detained.
So the record is clear: Rather than keeping us safer, the prison at Guantanamo has weakened American
national security. It is a rallying cry for our enemies. It sets back the willingness of our allies to work with us
in fighting an enemy that operates in scores of countries. By any measure, the costs of keeping it open far
exceed the complications involved in closing it. That's why I argued that it should be closed throughout my
campaign, and that is why I ordered it closed within one year.
The third decision that I made was to order a review of all pending cases at Guantanamo. I knew when I
ordered Guantanamo closed that it would be difficult and complex. There are 240 people there who have
now spent years in legal limbo. In dealing with this situation, we don't have the luxury of starting from
scratch. We're cleaning up something that is, quite simply, a mess -- a misguided experiment that has left in
its wake a flood of legal challenges that my administration is forced to deal with on a constant, almost daily
basis, and it consumes the time of government officials whose time should be spent on better protecting our
country.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Indeed, the legal challenges that have sparked so much debate in recent weeks here in Washington would
be taking place whether or not I decided to close Guantanamo. For example, the court order to release 17
Uighurs -- 17 Uighur detainees took place last fall, when George Bush was President. The Supreme Court
that invalidated the system of prosecution at Guantanamo in 2006 was overwhelmingly appointed by
Republican Presidents -- not wild-eyed liberals. In other words, the problem of what to do with Guantanamo
detainees was not caused by my decision to close the facility; the problem exists because of the decision to
open Guantanamo in the first place.
Now let me be blunt. There are no neat or easy answers here. I wish there were. But I can tell you that the
wrong answer is to pretend like this problem will go away if we maintain an unsustainable status quo. As
President, I refuse to allow this problem to fester. I refuse to pass it on to somebody else. It is my
responsibility to solve the problem. Our security interests will not permit us to delay. Our courts won't allow
it. And neither should our conscience.
Now, over the last several weeks, we've seen a return of the politicization of these issues that have
characterized the last several years. I'm an elected official; I understand these problems arouse passions
and concerns. They should. We're confronting some of the most complicated questions that a democracy
can face. But I have no interest in spending all of our time relitigating the policies of the last eight years. I'll
leave that to others. I want to solve these problems, and I want to solve them together as Americans.
And we will be ill-served by some of the fear-mongering that emerges whenever we discuss this issue.
Listening to the recent debate, I've heard words that, frankly, are calculated to scare people rather than
educate them; words that have more to do with politics than protecting our country. So I want to take this
opportunity to lay out what we are doing, and how we intend to resolve these outstanding issues. I will
explain how each action that we are taking will help build a framework that protects both the American
people and the values that we hold most dear. And I'll focus on two broad areas: first, issues relating to
Guantanamo and our detention policy; but, second, I also want to discuss issues relating to security and
transparency.
Now, let me begin by disposing of one argument as plainly as I can: We are not going to release anyone if it
would endanger our national security, nor will we release detainees within the United States who endanger
the American people. Where demanded by justice and national security, we will seek to transfer some
detainees to the same type of facilities in which we hold all manner of dangerous and violent criminals within
our borders -- namely, highly secure prisons that ensure the public safety.
As we make these decisions, bear in mind the following face: Nobody has ever escaped from one of our
federal, supermax prisons, which hold hundreds of convicted terrorists. As Republican Lindsey Graham
said, the idea that we cannot find a place to securely house 250-plus detainees within the United States is
not rational.
We are currently in the process of reviewing each of the detainee cases at Guantanamo to determine the
appropriate policy for dealing with them. And as we do so, we are acutely aware that under the last
administration, detainees were released and, in some cases, returned to the battlefield. That's why we are
doing away with the poorly planned, haphazard approach that let those detainees go in the past. Instead
we are treating these cases with the care and attention that the law requires and that our security demands.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, going forward, these cases will fall into five distinct categories.
First, whenever feasible, we will try those who have violated American criminal laws in federal courts -courts provided for by the United States Constitution. Some have derided our federal courts as incapable of
handling the trials of terrorists. They are wrong. Our courts and our juries, our citizens, are tough enough to
convict terrorists. The record makes that clear. Ramzi Yousef tried to blow up the World Trade Center. He
was convicted in our courts and is serving a life sentence in U.S. prisons. Zacarias Moussaoui has been
identified as the 20th 9/11 hijacker. He was convicted in our courts, and he too is serving a life sentence in
prison. If we can try those terrorists in our courts and hold them in our prisons, then we can do the same
with detainees from Guantanamo.
Recently, we prosecuted and received a guilty plea from a detainee, al-Marri, in federal court after years of
legal confusion. We're preparing to transfer another detainee to the Southern District Court of New York,
where he will face trial on charges related to the 1998 bombings of our embassies in Kenya and Tanzania -bombings that killed over 200 people. Preventing this detainee from coming to our shores would prevent his
trial and conviction. And after over a decade, it is time to finally see that justice is served, and that is what
we intend to do.
The second category of cases involves detainees who violate the laws of war and are therefore best tried
through military commissions. Military commissions have a history in the United States dating back to
George Washington and the Revolutionary War. They are an appropriate venue for trying detainees for
violations of the laws of war. They allow for the protection of sensitive sources and methods of intelligencegathering; they allow for the safety and security of participants; and for the presentation of evidence
gathered from the battlefield that cannot always be effectively presented in federal courts.
Now, some have suggested that this represents a reversal on my part. They should look at the record. In
2006, I did strongly oppose legislation proposed by the Bush administration and passed by the Congress
because it failed to establish a legitimate legal framework, with the kind of meaningful due process rights for
the accused that could stand up on appeal.
I said at that time, however, that I supported the use of military commissions to try detainees, provided there
were several reforms, and in fact there were some bipartisan efforts to achieve those reforms. Those are
the reforms that we are now making. Instead of using the flawed commissions of the last seven years, my
administration is bringing our commissions in line with the rule of law. We will no longer permit the use of
evidence -- as evidence statements that have been obtained using cruel, inhuman, or degrading
interrogation methods. We will no longer place the burden to prove that hearsay is unreliable on the
opponent of the hearsay. And we will give detainees greater latitude in selecting their own counsel, and
more protections if they refuse to testify. These reforms, among others, will make our military commissions
a more credible and effective means of administering justice, and I will work with Congress and members of
both parties, as well as legal authorities across the political spectrum, on legislation to ensure that these
commissions are fair, legitimate, and effective.
The third category of detainees includes those who have been ordered released by the courts. Now, let me
repeat what I said earlier: This has nothing to do with my decision to close Guantanamo. It has to do with
the rule of law.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
The courts have spoken. They have found that there's no legitimate reason to hold 21 of the people
currently held at Guantanamo. Nineteen of these findings took place before I was sworn into office. I
cannot ignore these rulings because as President, I too am bound by the law. The United States is a nation
of laws and so we must abide by these rulings.
The fourth category of cases involves detainees who we have determined can be transferred safely to
another country. So far, our review team has approved 50 detainees for transfer. And my administration is
in ongoing discussions with a number of other countries about the transfer of detainees to their soil for
detention and rehabilitation.
Now, finally, there remains the question of detainees at Guantanamo who cannot be prosecuted yet who
pose a clear danger to the American people. And I have to be honest here -- this is the toughest single
issue that we will face. We're going to exhaust every avenue that we have to prosecute those at
Guantanamo who pose a danger to our country. But even when this process is complete, there may be a
number of people who cannot be prosecuted for past crimes, in some cases because evidence may be
tainted, but who nonetheless pose a threat to the security of the United States. Examples of that threat
include people who've received extensive explosives training at al Qaeda training camps, or commanded
Taliban troops in battle, or expressed their allegiance to Osama bin Laden, or otherwise made it clear that
they want to kill Americans. These are people who, in effect, remain at war with the United States.
Let me repeat: I am not going to release individuals who endanger the American people. Al Qaeda
terrorists and their affiliates are at war with the United States, and those that we capture -- like other
prisoners of war -- must be prevented from attacking us again. Having said that, we must recognize that
these detention policies cannot be unbounded. They can't be based simply on what I or the executive
branch decide alone. That's why my administration has begun to reshape the standards that apply to
ensure that they are in line with the rule of law. We must have clear, defensible, and lawful standards for
those who fall into this category. We must have fair procedures so that we don't make mistakes. We must
have a thorough process of periodic review, so that any prolonged detention is carefully evaluated and
justified.
I know that creating such a system poses unique challenges. And other countries have grappled with this
question; now, so must we. But I want to be very clear that our goal is to construct a legitimate legal
framework for the remaining Guantanamo detainees that cannot be transferred. Our goal is not to avoid a
legitimate legal framework. In our constitutional system, prolonged detention should not be the decision of
any one man. If and when we determine that the United States must hold individuals to keep them from
carrying out an act of war, we will do so within a system that involves judicial and congressional oversight.
And so, going forward, my administration will work with Congress to develop an appropriate legal regime so
that our efforts are consistent with our values and our Constitution.
Now, as our efforts to close Guantanamo move forward, I know that the politics in Congress will be difficult.
These are issues that are fodder for 30-second commercials. You can almost picture the direct mail pieces
that emerge from any vote on this issue -- designed to frighten the population. I get it. But if we continue to
make decisions within a climate of fear, we will make more mistakes. And if we refuse to deal with these
issues today, then I guarantee you that they will be an albatross around our efforts to combat terrorism in
the future.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
I have confidence that the American people are more interested in doing what is right to protect this country
than in political posturing. I am not the only person in this city who swore an oath to uphold the Constitution
-- so did each and every member of Congress. And together we have a responsibility to enlist our values in
the effort to secure our people, and to leave behind the legacy that makes it easier for future Presidents to
keep this country safe.
Now, let me touch on a second set of issues that relate to security and transparency.
National security requires a delicate balance. One the one hand, our democracy depends on transparency.
On the other hand, some information must be protected from public disclosure for the sake of our security -for instance, the movement of our troops, our intelligence-gathering, or the information we have about a
terrorist organization and its affiliates. In these and other cases, lives are at stake.
Now, several weeks ago, as part of an ongoing court case, I released memos issued by the previous
administration's Office of Legal Counsel. I did not do this because I disagreed with the enhanced
interrogation techniques that those memos authorized, and I didn't release the documents because I
rejected their legal rationales -- although I do on both counts. I released the memos because the existence
of that approach to interrogation was already widely known, the Bush administration had acknowledged its
existence, and I had already banned those methods. The argument that somehow by releasing those
memos we are providing terrorists with information about how they will be interrogated makes no sense.
We will not be interrogating terrorists using that approach. That approach is now prohibited.
In short, I released these memos because there was no overriding reason to protect them. And the ensuing
debate has helped the American people better understand how these interrogation methods came to be
authorized and used.
On the other hand, I recently opposed the release of certain photographs that were taken of detainees by
U.S. personnel between 2002 and 2004. Individuals who violated standards of behavior in these photos
have been investigated and they have been held accountable. There was and is no debate as to whether
what is reflected in those photos is wrong. Nothing has been concealed to absolve perpetrators of crimes.
However, it was my judgment -- informed by my national security team -- that releasing these photos would
inflame anti-American opinion and allow our enemies to paint U.S. troops with a broad, damning, and
inaccurate brush, thereby endangering them in theaters of war.
In short, there is a clear and compelling reason to not release these particular photos. There are nearly
200,000 Americans who are serving in harm's way, and I have a solemn responsibility for their safety as
Commander-in-Chief. Nothing would be gained by the release of these photos that matters more than the
lives of our young men and women serving in harm's way.
Now, in the press's mind and in some of the public's mind, these two cases are contradictory. They are not
to me. In each of these cases, I had to strike the right balance between transparency and national security.
And this balance brings with it a precious responsibility. There's no doubt that the American people have
seen this balance tested over the last several years. In the images from Abu Ghraib and the brutal
interrogation techniques made public long before I was President, the American people learned of actions
taken in their name that bear no resemblance to the ideals that generations of Americans have fought for.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And whether it was the run-up to the Iraq war or the revelation of secret programs, Americans often felt like
part of the story had been unnecessarily withheld from them. And that caused suspicion to build up. And
that leads to a thirst for accountability.
I understand that. I ran for President promising transparency, and I meant what I said. And that's why,
whenever possible, my administration will make all information available to the American people so that they
can make informed judgments and hold us accountable. But I have never argued -- and I never will -- that
our most sensitive national security matters should simply be an open book. I will never abandon -- and will
vigorously defend -- the necessity of classification to defend our troops at war, to protect sources and
methods, and to safeguard confidential actions that keep the American people safe. Here's the difference
though: Whenever we cannot release certain information to the public for valid national security reasons, I
will insist that there is oversight of my actions -- by Congress or by the courts.
We're currently launching a review of current policies by all those agencies responsible for the classification
of documents to determine where reforms are possible, and to assure that the other branches of
government will be in a position to review executive branch decisions on these matters. Because in our
system of checks and balances, someone must always watch over the watchers -- especially when it comes
to sensitive administration -- information.
Now, along these same lines, my administration is also confronting challenges to what is known as the
"state secrets" privilege. This is a doctrine that allows the government to challenge legal cases involving
secret programs. It's been used by many past Presidents -- Republican and Democrat -- for many
decades. And while this principle is absolutely necessary in some circumstances to protect national
security, I am concerned that it has been over-used. It is also currently the subject of a wide range of
lawsuits. So let me lay out some principles here. We must not protect information merely because it
reveals the violation of a law or embarrassment to the government. And that's why my administration is
nearing completion of a thorough review of this practice.
And we plan to embrace several principles for reform. We will apply a stricter legal test to material that can
be protected under the state secrets privilege. We will not assert the privilege in court without first following
our own formal process, including review by a Justice Department committee and the personal approval of
the Attorney General. And each year we will voluntarily report to Congress when we have invoked the
privilege and why because, as I said before, there must be proper oversight over our actions.
On all these matters related to the disclosure of sensitive information, I wish I could say that there was some
simple formula out there to be had. There is not. These often involve tough calls, involve competing
concerns, and they require a surgical approach. But the common thread that runs through all of my
decisions is simple: We will safeguard what we must to protect the American people, but we will also
ensure the accountability and oversight that is the hallmark of our constitutional system. I will never hide the
truth because it's uncomfortable. I will deal with Congress and the courts as co-equal branches of
government. I will tell the American people what I know and don't know, and when I release something
publicly or keep something secret, I will tell you why.
Now, in all the areas that I've discussed today, the policies that I've proposed represent a new direction from
the last eight years. To protect the American people and our values, we've banned enhanced interrogation
techniques.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
We are closing the prison at Guantanamo. We are reforming military commissions, and we will pursue a
new legal regime to detain terrorists. We are declassifying more information and embracing more oversight
of our actions, and we're narrowing our use of the state secrets privilege. These are dramatic changes that
will put our approach to national security on a surer, safer, and more sustainable footing. Their
implementation will take time, but they will get done.
There's a core principle that we will apply to all of our actions. Even as we clean up the mess at
Guantanamo, we will constantly reevaluate our approach, subject our decisions to review from other
branches of government, as well as the public. We seek the strongest and most sustainable legal
framework for addressing these issues in the long term -- not to serve immediate politics, but to do what's
right over the long term. By doing that we can leave behind a legacy that outlasts my administration, my
presidency, that endures for the next President and the President after that -- a legacy that protects the
American people and enjoys a broad legitimacy at home and abroad.
Now, this is what I mean when I say that we need to focus on the future. I recognize that many still have a
strong desire to focus on the past. When it comes to actions of the last eight years, passions are high.
Some Americans are angry; others want to re-fight debates that have been settled, in some cases debates
that they have lost. I know that these debates lead directly, in some cases, to a call for a fuller accounting,
perhaps through an independent commission.
I've opposed the creation of such a commission because I believe that our existing democratic institutions
are strong enough to deliver accountability. The Congress can review abuses of our values, and there are
ongoing inquiries by the Congress into matters like enhanced interrogation techniques. The Department of
Justice and our courts can work through and punish any violations of our laws or miscarriages of justice.
It's no secret there is a tendency in Washington to spend our time pointing fingers at one another. And it's
no secret that our media culture feeds the impulse that lead to a good fight and good copy. But nothing will
contribute more than that than a extended relitigation of the last eight years. Already, we've seen how that
kind of effort only leads those in Washington to different sides to laying blame. It can distract us from
focusing our time, our efforts, and our politics on the challenges of the future.
We see that, above all, in the recent debate -- how the recent debate has obscured the truth and sends
people into opposite and absolutist ends. On the one side of the spectrum, there are those who make little
allowance for the unique challenges posed by terrorism, and would almost never put national security over
transparency. And on the other end of the spectrum, there are those who embrace a view that can be
summarized in two words: "Anything goes." Their arguments suggest that the ends of fighting terrorism can
be used to justify any means, and that the President should have blanket authority to do whatever he wants
-- provided it is a President with whom they agree.
Both sides may be sincere in their views, but neither side is right. The American people are not absolutist,
and they don't elect us to impose a rigid ideology on our problems. They know that we need not sacrifice
our security for our values, nor sacrifice our values for our security, so long as we approach difficult
questions with honesty and care and a dose of common sense. That, after all, is the unique genius of
America. That's the challenge laid down by our Constitution. That has been the source of our strength
through the ages. That's what makes the United States of America different as a nation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
I can stand here today, as President of the United States, and say without exception or equivocation that we
do not torture, and that we will vigorously protect our people while forging a strong and durable framework
that allows us to fight terrorism while abiding by the rule of law. Make no mistake: If we fail to turn the page
on the approach that was taken over the past several years, then I will not be able to say that as President.
And if we cannot stand for our core values, then we are not keeping faith with the documents that are
enshrined in this hall.
The Framers who drafted the Constitution could not have foreseen the challenges that have unfolded over
the last 222 years. But our Constitution has endured through secession and civil rights, through World War
and Cold War, because it provides a foundation of principles that can be applied pragmatically; it provides a
compass that can help us find our way. It hasn't always been easy. We are an imperfect people. Every
now and then, there are those who think that America's safety and success requires us to walk away from
the sacred principles enshrined in this building. And we hear such voices today. But over the long haul the
American people have resisted that temptation. And though we've made our share of mistakes, required
some course corrections, ultimately we have held fast to the principles that have been the source of our
strength and a beacon to the world.
Now this generation faces a great test in the specter of terrorism. And unlike the Civil War or World War II,
we can't count on a surrender ceremony to bring this journey to an end. Right now, in distant training
camps and in crowded cities, there are people plotting to take American lives. That will be the case a year
from now, five years from now, and -- in all probability -- 10 years from now. Neither I nor anyone can stand
here today and say that there will not be another terrorist attack that takes American lives. But I can say
with certainty that my administration -- along with our extraordinary troops and the patriotic men and women
who defend our national security -- will do everything in our power to keep the American people safe. And I
do know with certainty that we can defeat al Qaeda. Because the terrorists can only succeed if they swell
their ranks and alienate America from our allies, and they will never be able to do that if we stay true to who
we are, if we forge tough and durable approaches to fighting terrorism that are anchored in our timeless
ideals. This must be our common purpose.
I ran for President because I believe that we cannot solve the challenges of our time unless we solve them
together. We will not be safe if we see national security as a wedge that divides America -- it can and must
be a cause that unites us as one people and as one nation. We've done so before in times that were more
perilous than ours. We will do so once again.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329887" filename="Barack_Obama_-_National_Wireless_Initiative.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20National%20Wireless%20Initiative.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech on the National Wireless Initiative
delivered 10 February 2011, Northern Michigan University, Marquette, MI

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

It is wonderful to be here in the Upper Peninsula with so many Yoopers. How many of you are
Green Bay fans, too? I’ve been seeing too many Green Bay fans lately.
It is great to be here. It is great to be at Northern Michigan University. We’ve got some
wonderful guests here that I just want to mention. First of all, somebody who is as good a
public servant, not just good at what he does but good at heart and works tirelessly on behalf
of the entire state, your senior senator, Carl Levin, is here. Now, his partner in the Senate
could not be here because she’s actually leading a Democratic caucus retreat, but she’s been
fighting for manufacturing, for broadband, for a lot of things that we’re talking about here
today. So I just want to acknowledge Debbie Stabenow, who deeply cares about the work
that you do up here.
I want to thank the great hospitality of Mayor John Kivela, who has been showing me around
town. Thank you so much, Mayor Kivela. The President of Northern Michigan University, Dr.
Les Wong, is here. And all of you are here. And you guys are pretty special. Absolutely.
Before I begin, I just want to say that we are following today’s events in Egypt very closely.
And we’ll have more to say as this plays out. But what is absolutely clear is that we are
witnessing history unfold. It’s a moment of transformation that’s taking place because the
people of Egypt are calling for change. And they’ve turned out in extraordinary numbers
representing all ages and all walks of life, but it’s young people who’ve been at the forefront -a new generation, your generation, who want their voices to be heard. And so going forward,
we want those young people and we want all Egyptians to know America will continue to do
everything that we can to support an orderly and genuine transition to democracy in Egypt.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, as we watch what’s taking place, we’re also reminded that we live in an interconnected
world. What happens across the globe has an impact on each and every one of us. And that’s
why I’ve come to Marquette today -- not only because it’s beautiful, and the people are really
nice -- which is true. But I’ve come here because in the 21st century, it’s not just the big
cities where change is happening. It’s also in towns like this where the jobs and businesses of
tomorrow will take root, and where young and talented Americans can lead. It’s towns like
this where our economic future will be won.
Now, in the short term, the best thing we can do to speed up economic growth is to make
sure families and businesses have more money to spend, and that’s exactly what -- got a little
applause there. That’s exactly why we passed those tax cuts in December. That’s what it’s
doing. Because Democrats and Republicans came together, Americans’ paychecks will be a
little bigger this year and businesses will be able to write off their investments and companies
will grow and they’ll add workers. But we’ve got more to do.
Our measure of success has to be whether every American who wants a job can find a job;
whether this country is still the place where you can make it if you try. In a world that’s more
connected and more competitive, other nations look at this moment as their moment, their
turn to win the jobs and industries of our time. I see things differently. I see this as
America’s moment to win the future, so that the 21st century is the American century just like
the 20th century was. Yes we can.
But to do this, we’re going to have to up our game, Marquette. We got to up our game. To
attract the best jobs, the newest industries, we’re going to have to out-innovate, out-educate,
out-build. We’re going to have to out-hustle the rest of the world. That means investing in
cutting-edge research and technology, like the new advanced battery manufacturing industry
that’s taking root right here in the state of Michigan. It means investing in the skills and
training of our people, just like it’s taking place at this university. It means investing in
transportation and communications networks that move goods and information as fast as
possible.
And to make room for these investments, we’re going to have to cut whatever spending we
can do without. We’ve got a real issue with debts and deficit, and so we’ve got to live within
our means. And that means that we’ve got to cut out things that aren’t adding to growth and
opportunity in order to invest in those things that are.
And that’s why I’ve proposed that we freeze annual domestic spending for the next five years.
That will reduce the deficit by more than 400 billion dollars over the next decade. It will
bring spending to the lowest share of our economy since Eisenhower was President. That’s a
long time ago. Even I wasn’t born then.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
So government has to do what American families do every day: live within our means. But
even as we do so, we can’t sacrifice our future. I’ll just give you guys an analogy. If you’re
trying to cut back in your family, you might decide, we’re not going to go out to dinner so
often; maybe we’ll skip the vacation; we’re not going to remodel the kitchen. But you
wouldn’t stop saving for your child’s college education. You wouldn’t stop saving for your own
retirement. If your boiler was broken or your roof had a leak, you’d still go ahead and make
those investments.
Well, the same is true with our country. We’ve got to cut out the equivalence of eating out
and vacations. I know there may be some restaurant owners here -- go eat at their
restaurants -- but I’m just making a general point. Even as we cut out the things we can
afford to do without, we got a responsibility to invest in those areas that will have the biggest
impact on our future, and those things are innovation, education and infrastructure.
And that last area -- infrastructure -- is why I’ve come here today. Connecting a country of
our size has never been easy. Just imagine what Americans experienced when they fanned
out from 13 colonies to settle a continent. If you wanted to get from one coast to the other, it
would take you months; it would cost you a small fortune. If you settled in the heartland, you
were an island, with no real market to sell your goods or buy what you needed. You might
have to wait until the traders came by before you stocked up.
So we decided to build a railroad to span a continent -- one that would blast through
mountains of granite and use thousands of miles of steel, and put to work an army of citizens
and immigrants to work. It was an endeavor that would also require support of our
government. It didn’t just happen on its own. As General William T. Sherman said, “Uncle
Sam is the only giant I know who can grapple the subject.”
So even as President Lincoln tried to hold the North and South together, he was determined to
see this railroad unite East and West. And private companies joined the charge, racing one
another to meet in the middle. And eventually, a telephone operator -- a telegraph operator
sent out a simple message to the cheers of a waiting nation. The telegraph just said: “Done.”
Done. Now, if he knew that we were still talking about it today, he might have come up with
something more inspiring.
But overnight, the transcontinental railroad laid the way for a nationwide economy, not a
bunch of local economies, but a nationwide economy. Suddenly, a cross-country trip was cut
from months to days. The cost to move goods and mail plummeted. Cowboys drove cattle to
railcars that whisked them back East. Entrepreneurs could sell anything, anywhere.
After the railroad was completed, a newspaper proclaimed: “We are the youngest of peoples.
But we are teaching the world to march forward.” Teaching the world to march forward.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s who we are. We are a nation that has always been built to compete. And that’s why,
decades later, FDR set up the Rural Electrification Administration to help bring power to vast
swaths of America that were still in darkness. Companies said that building lines to rural
areas would be too costly. I mean, big cities already had electricity. But they said, it’s too
costly to go out into remote areas. It’s too costly to come up into the Upper Peninsula.
So Americans in these towns went without refrigeration or running water. If you wanted a
glimpse of the larger world, your town might run a movie off a small diesel engine. It might
not even last the full film.
Once power lines were laid down, electricity flowed to farms across the country, transforming
millions of lives. There’s a well-known story of a Texas family returning home the first night
their farmhouse was hooked up, and a woman thought it was on fire. And her daughter said,
“No, Mama, the lights are on.” Think about that. That wasn’t that long ago, and government
was there to help make sure that everybody -- everybody, not just some -- but everybody -not just those who folks could make an immediate profit off of -- but everybody had access to
electricity.
So years later, as our nation grew by leaps and bounds, we realized that a patchwork system
of back roads and dirt paths couldn’t handle the biggest economy in the world. So President
Eisenhower helped make it possible to build an Interstate Highway System, and that, too,
transformed the nation -- as much as the railways had.
And finally, we could ship goods and services to places that the railroads didn’t reach. It
meant that we could live apart from where we worked. We could travel. We could see
America.
Each of these achievements -- none of them just happened. We chose to do them. We chose
to do big things. And every American benefited -- not just from new conveniences. Not just
from the jobs created by laying down new lines or tracks or pavement. We benefited
enormously from new economic growth -- from the scores of businesses that opened near
each town’s new train station, or new power line, or new off-ramp.
So this is a new century, and we can’t expect tomorrow’s economy to take root using
yesterday’s infrastructure. We got to think about what’s the next thing, what’s the next big
thing, and make sure that we’re at the forefront -- just like we were in the last century.
Today, new companies are going to seek out the fastest, most reliable ways to move people,
goods and information, whether they are in Shanghai or in Chicago. So if we want new jobs
and businesses here in America, we’ve got to have the best transportation system and the
best communication network in the world. It’s like that movie, Field of Dreams: If we build it,
they will come. But we’ve got to build it. We’ve got to build it.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Over the last two years, we’ve begun rebuilding for the 21st century. This is a national
project that has meant thousands of jobs for the hard-hit construction industry. And I’ve now
proposed redoubling these efforts. We want to put more Americans to work repairing
crumbling bridges and roads. Within 25 years, our goal is to have 80 percent of Americans
with access to high-speed rail, which could allow you to go to places in half the time it takes
by car. Within five years, we want to make it possible for businesses to put high-speed
wireless services in reach of virtually every American.
And that last part, high-speed wireless, is why I chose to come to Northern Michigan
University today. Now let me give you some context. Today, more than 90 percent of homes
in South Korea subscribe to high-speed broadband. They just have better networks than we
do. In America, the nation that created the Internet -- by the way, because of government
investment; it didn’t just happen by itself magically -- because of government R&D, we
created the Internet, but yet only 65 percent of households here in America can say the same.
When it comes to high-speed Internet, the lights are still off in one-third of our households.
One out of every three households in America don’t have that same access. For millions of
Americans, the railway hasn’t showed up yet.
For our families and our businesses, high-speed wireless service, that’s the next train station;
it’s the next off-ramp. It’s how we’ll spark new innovation, new investment, new jobs.
And you know this here in Northern Michigan. That’s why I showed up, in addition to it being
pretty and people being nice. For decades now, this university has given a new laptop to
every incoming student. Wi-Fi stretched across campus. But if you lived off-campus, like
most students and teachers here, you were largely out of luck. Broadband was often too
expensive to afford. And if you lived a bit further out of town, you were completely out of
luck, because broadband providers, they often won’t build networks where it’s not profitable,
just like they wouldn’t build electrical lines where it wasn’t profitable.
So this university tried something new. You partnered with various companies to build a highspeed, next-generation wireless network. And you managed to install it with six people in
only four days without raising tuition. Good job. Good job, Mr. President. By the way, if you
give me the name of these six people -- there’s a whole bunch of stuff in Washington I’d like
to see done in four days with six people.
So today, this is one of America’s most connected universities, and enrollment is near the
highest it’s been in 30 years.
And what’s more -- and this is what makes this special -- you told nearby towns that if they
allowed you to retrofit their towers with new equipment to expand your network, then their
schools, their first responders, their city governments could use it too. And as a result, police
officers can access crime databases in their cars. And firefighters can download blueprints on
the way to a burning building. And public works officials can save money by monitoring
pumps and equipment remotely.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And you’ve created new online learning opportunities for K-12 students as far as 30 miles
away, some of whom -- some of whom can’t always make it to school in a place that averages
200 inches of snow a year. Now, some of these students don’t appreciate the end of school
[snow] days. I know Malia and Sasha get really excited about school [snow] days. Of course,
in Washington things shut down when there’s an inch of snow. But this technology is giving
them more opportunity. It’s good for their education, it’s good for our economy. In fact, I
just came from a demonstration of online learning in action. We were with Professor Lubig
and he had plugged in Negaunee High School -- and Powell Township School in Big Bay. So I
felt like the guy in Star Trek. I was being beamed around -- across the Upper Peninsula here.
But it was remarkable to see the possibilities for these young people who are able to, let’s
say, do a chemistry experiment, and they can compare the results with kids in Boston.
Or if there’s some learning tool or material they don’t have immediately accessible in their
school, they can connect here to the university, and they’re able to tap into it.
It’s opening up an entire world to them. And one of the young people who I was talking to,
he talked about foreign policy and what we were seeing in places like Egyptian. And he said,
what’s amazing especially for us is that now we have a window to the entire world, and we
can start understanding other cultures and other places in ways that we could never do
without this technology.
For local businesses, broadband access is helping them grow and prosper and compete in a
global economy. In fact, Marquette has been rated one of the top five “eCities” in Michigan
for entrepreneurship. That’s right. So here’s a great example, Getz’s Clothiers. The Getzes
are here. Where are the Getzes? They’re around here somewhere. There they are right
there.
This is a third-generation, family-owned, Marquette institution. They’ve occupied the same
downtown store for more than a century -- but with the help of broadband, they were recently
listed as one of America’s 5,000 fastest-growing companies. Now how did they pull that off?
Obviously they’ve got great products, great service. But what’s also true is online sales now
make up more than two-thirds of their annual revenue. Think about that. You got a
downtown department store; now two-thirds of its sales are online. It can process more than
1,000 orders a day, and its workforce has more than doubled. So you’ve got a local business
with a global footprint because of technology.
Now, if you can do this in snowy U.P. -- we can do it all across America. In fact, many places
already are. So in Wagner, South Dakota, patients can receive high-quality, lifesaving
medical care from a Sioux Falls specialist who can monitor their EKG and listen to their
breathing -- from 100 miles away. In Ten Sleep, Wyoming -- I love the name of that town,
Ten Sleep -- it’s a town in Wyoming of 300 people. A fiber-optic network allowed a company
to employ several hundred teachers who teach English to students in Asia over the Internet,
24 hours a day. You’ve all heard about outsourcing. Well, this is “insourcing” -- where
overseas work is done right here in the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we want to multiply these stories -- we want to multiply your story -- all over the country.
We want to invest in the next generation of high-speed wireless coverage for 98 percent of
Americans.
This isn’t just about faster Internet or being able to find a friend on Facebook. It’s about
connecting every corner of America to the digital age. It’s about a rural community in Iowa or
Alabama where farmers can monitor weather across the state and market across the globe.
It’s about an entrepreneur on Main Street with a great idea she hopes to sell to the big city.
It’s about every young person who no longer has to leave his hometown to seek new
opportunity -- because opportunity is right there at his or her fingertips.
So to make this happen, we’re going to invest in research and development of emerging
technologies and applications. We’re going to accelerate breakthroughs in health and
education and transportation, and deploy a new nationwide, interoperable wireless network
for first responders -- making sure they’ve got the funding and the frequencies that they were
promised and that they need to keep us safe. It’s important. By selling private companies
the rights to these airwaves, we won’t just encourage private investment and expand wireless
access; we’re actually going to bring in revenues that lower our deficits.
Now, access to high-speed Internet by itself won’t make a business more successful, or a
student smarter, or a citizen more informed. That takes hard work. It takes those late
nights. It takes hustle. It takes that quintessentially American drive to be the best. That’s
what’s the most important ingredient for our success.
But we’ve always believed that we have a responsibility to guarantee all our people every tool
necessary for them to meet their full potential. So if they’re willing to work hard, they can
succeed. And in a 21st-century economy, that has never been more important. Every
American deserves access to the world’s information. Every American deserves access to the
global economy. We have promised this for 15 years. It’s time we delivered on that promise.
It’s time we delivered on that promise.
So connecting our people. Competing with the rest of the world. Living within our means
without sacrificing what’s required to win the future. We can do all this because we’ve done it
before.
In 1960, at the height of his presidential campaign, JFK came to Michigan. And it was a
moment similar to this one. Other nations were doing their best to try to take our place at the
top. And here in Michigan, he made it clear that if we wanted to keep from being knocked off
our perch, there could only be one goal for the United States. It could be summed up in one
word: “first.” First.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
“I do not mean first, but,” he said. “I don’t mean first, when. I don’t mean first, if. I mean
first -- period.” And “The real question now,” he continued, “The real question,” he continued,
“is whether we’re up to the task -- whether each and every one of us is willing to face the
facts, to bear the burdens, to provide the risks, and to meet our dangers.” That was 50 years
ago. But things haven’t changed in terms of what’s required to succeed.
And we were up to the task then. I believe we’re up to the task today. Time and again,
whether westward or skyward, with each rail and road that we’ve laid, in every community,
we’ve connected with our own science and imagination, and we forged anew our faith that we
can do anything. We do big things. That’s who we are. And that’s who we’re going to have
to be again -- a young nation that teaches the world to march forward.
That’s what you’re doing up here in U.P. That’s what you’re doing here at Northern Michigan
University. That’s what we’re all going to do together in the months and years to come.
Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329585" filename="Barack_Obama_-_New_Economic_Team.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20New%20Economic%20Team.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Announcement of Economic Team

Delivered 24 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

The news this past week, including this morning’s news about Citigroup, has made it even
more clear that we are facing an economic crisis of historic proportions. Our financial markets
are under stress. New home purchases in October were the lowest in half­a­century. Recently,
more than half­a­million jobless claims were filed, the highest in 18 years. And if we do not
act swiftly and boldly, most experts now believe that we could lose millions of jobs next year.
While we can’t underestimate the challenges that we face, we also can’t underestimate our
capacity to overcome them, to summon that spirit of determination and optimism that has
always defined us, and to move forward in a new direction to create new jobs, reform our
financial system, and fuel long­term economic growth.
We know this won’t be easy, and it won’t happen overnight. We’ll need to bring together the
best minds in America to guide us, and that is what I’ve sought to do in assembling my
economic team. I’ve sought leaders who could offer both sound judgment and fresh thinking,
both a depth of experience and a wealth of bold, new ideas, and most of all who share my
fundamental belief that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street without a thriving Main Street,
that in this country we rise or fall as one nation, as one people.
Today, Vice President­elect Biden and I are pleased to announce the nomination of four
individuals who meet these criteria to lead our economic team: Timothy Geithner, as secretary
of treasury; Lawrence Summers, as the director of our National Economic Council; Christina
Romer, as chair of the Council of Economic Advisers; and Melody Barnes, as director of the
Domestic Policy Council.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Having served in senior roles at Treasury, the IMF, and the New York Fed, Tim Geithner offers
not just extensive experience shaping economic policy and managing financial markets, he
also has an unparalleled understanding of our current economic crisis in all of its depth,
complexity, and urgency. Tim will waste no time getting up to speed. He will start his first day
on the job with a unique insight into the failures of today’s markets and a clear vision of the
steps we must take to revive them. The reality is that the economic crisis we face is no longer
just an American crisis; it’s a global crisis. And we will need to reach out to countries around
the world to craft a global response. Tim’s extensive international experience makes him
uniquely suited to do that work.
Growing up partly in Africa and having lived and worked throughout Asia, having served as
undersecretary of the treasury for international affairs, one of the many roles in the
international arena, and having studied both Chinese and Japanese, Tim understands the
language of today’s international markets in more ways than one. Tim served with distinction
under both Democrats and Republicans and has a long history of working comfortably and as
an honest broker on both sides of the aisle. With stellar performances and outstanding results
at every stage of his career, Tim has earned the confidence and respect of business, financial,
and community leaders, members of Congress, and political leaders around the world. And I
know he will do so once again as America’s next treasury secretary, the chief economic
spokesman for my Administration.
Now, like Tim, Larry Summers also brings a singular combination of skill, intellect, and
experience to the role he will play in our Administration. As undersecretary, deputy secretary,
and then secretary of the treasury, Larry helped guide us through several major international
financial crises and was a central architect of the policies that led to the longest economic
expansion in American history, with record surpluses, rising family incomes, and more than 20
million new jobs. He also championed a range of measures, from tax credits to enhanced
lending programs to consumer financial protections, that greatly benefited middle­income
families.
As a thought leader, Larry has urged us to confront the problems of income inequality and the
middle­class squeeze, consistently arguing that the key to a strong economy is a strong,
vibrant, growing middle class. This idea is at the core of my own economic philosophy and will
be the foundation of all of my economic policies.
And as one of the great economic minds of our time, Larry has earned a global reputation for
being able to cut to the heart of the most complex and novel policy challenges. With respect
to both our current financial crisis and other pressing economic issues of our time, his
thinking, writing, and speaking have set the terms of the debate. I’m glad he will be by my
side, playing the critical role of coordinating my Administration’s economic policy in the White
House, and I will rely heavily on his advice as we navigate the uncharted waters of this
economic crisis.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
As one of the most expert people in America on economic crises and how to solve them, my
next nominee, Christina Romer, will bring a critically needed perspective to her work as chair
of my Council of Economic Advisors. Christina is both a leading macroeconomist and a leading
economic historian, perhaps best known for her work on America’s recovery from the Great
Depression and the robust economic expansion that followed.
Since 2003, she’s been co­director of the National Bureau of Economic Research Monetary
Economics program. She’s also a member of the bureau’s Business Cycle Dating Committee,
the body charged with officially determining whether a recession has started and ended,
experience which will serve her well as she advises me on our current economic challenges.
Christina has done groundbreaking research on many of the topics our Administration will
confront, from tax policy to fighting recessions. And her clear­eyed, independent analyses
have received praise from both conservative and liberal thinkers alike. I look forward to her
wise counsel in the White House.
Finally, we know that rebuilding our economy will require action on a great variety of fronts:
from education and health care to energy and Social Security. Without sound policies in these
areas, we can neither enjoy sustained economic growth nor realize our full potential as a
people. So I am extraordinarily pleased that Melody Barnes, one of the most respected policy
experts in America, will serve as my director of the Domestic Policy Council, and that she will
be working hand in hand with my economic policy team to chart a course to economic
recovery. An integral part of that course will be health care reform, and she will work closely
with my secretary of health and human services on that issue.
As executive vice president for policy at the Center for American Progress, Melody directed a
network of policy experts dedicated to finding solutions for struggling middle­class families.
She also served as chief counsel to the great Senator Ted Kennedy on the Senate Judiciary
Committee, working on issues ranging from crime to immigration to bankruptcy, and fighting
tirelessly to protect civil rights, women’s rights, and religious freedom. Melody’s brilliant legal
mind and her long experience working to secure the liberties on which this nation was
founded, as well as to secure the opportunities for those who’ve been left behind, make her a
perfect fit for DPC director.
I'm grateful that Tim, Larry, Christina, and Melody have accepted my nomination, and I am
looking forward to working closely with them in the months ahead. That work starts today,
because the truth is, we do not have a minute to waste. Right now, our economy is trapped in
a vicious cycle: The turmoil on Wall Street means a new round of belt­tightening for families
and businesses on Main Street, and as folks produce less and consume less, that just deepens
the problems in our financial markets. These extraordinary stresses on our financial system
require extraordinary policy responses. And my Administration will honor the public
commitments made by the current Administration to address this crisis.

Further, beyond any immediate actions we may take, we need a recovery plan for both Wall
Street and Main Street, a plan that stabilizes our financial system and gets credit flowing

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
again, while at the same time addressing our growing foreclosure crisis, helping our struggling
auto industry, and creating and saving 2.5 million jobs, jobs rebuilding our infrastructure, our
roads, our bridges, modernizing our schools, and creating the clean energy infrastructure of
the 21st century. Because at this moment, we need to restore both confidence in the markets
and restore confidence of middle­class families, who find themselves working harder, earning
less, and falling further and further behind.
I’ve asked my economic team to develop recommendations for this plan and to consult with
Congress, the current Administration, and the Federal Reserve on immediate economic
developments over the next two months. I’ve requested that they brief me on these matters
on a daily basis. And in the coming weeks, I will provide the American people and the
incoming Congress with an overview of their initial recommendations. It is my hope that the
new Congress will begin work on an aggressive economic recovery plan when they convene in
early January so that our Administration can hit the ground running.
With our economy in distress, we cannot hesitate and we cannot delay. Our families can’t
afford to keep on waiting and hoping for a solution. They can’t afford to watch another month
of unpaid bills pile up, another semester of tuition slip out of reach, another month where,
instead of saving for retirement, they’re dipping into their savings just to get by. And I want
to repeat: This will not be easy. There are no shortcuts or quick fixes to this crisis, which has
been many years in the making, and the economy is likely to get worse before it gets better.
Full recovery will not happen immediately. And to make the investments we need, we’ll have
to scour our federal budget, line by line, and make meaningful cuts and sacrifices, as well,
something I’ll be discussing further tomorrow.
Despite all of this, I am hopeful about the future. I have full confidence in the wisdom and
ingenuity of my economic team and in the hard work, courage, and sacrifice of the American
people. And most of all, I believe deeply in the resilience and the spirit of this nation. I know
we can work our way out of this crisis because we’ve done it before. And I know we will
succeed once again if we put aside partisanship and politics and work together.
That’s exactly what I intend to do as President of the United States.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2008. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329648" filename="Barack_Obama_-_New_Foundation_Georgetown.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20New%20Foundation%20Georgetown.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
A New Foundation

Delivered 14 April 2009, Georgetown University, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Well, to President DeGioia, thank you so much for the gracious introduction, and thanks for bringing your
family -- including JT -- appreciate you. We're going to invite him over, hang out with the girls. He's a pretty
good-looking young man.
To Mayor Adrian Fenty, who's doing such a great job in this city, thank you so much for your attendance. To
Representative Donna Edwards, who is here and represents Maryland's 4th District, thank you.
To Georgetown University students, it is great to be here. Well, it is good to be back. I appeared in this room
during the campaign and had a wonderful reception then, and it's wonderful to be back and be with all of
you.
We're going to talk about the economy today. And I was telling President DeGioia this may be a slightly
longer speech than I usually give, but it's a slightly bigger topic, and that is how we are going to deal with so
many of our economic challenges.
You know, it's been 12 weeks now since my administration began. And I think that even our critics would
agree that at the very least, we've been busy. In just under three months, we've responded to an
extraordinary set of economic challenges with extraordinary action -- action that's been unprecedented both
in terms of its scale and its speed.
And I know that some have accused us of taking on too much at once. Others believe we haven't done
enough. And many Americans are simply wondering how all of our different programs and policies fit
together in a single, overarching strategy that will move this economy from recession to recovery and
ultimately to prosperity.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
So today, I want to step back for a moment and explain our strategy as clearly as I can. This is going to be
prose, and not poetry. I want to talk about what we've done, why we've done it, and what we have left to do.
I want to update you on the progress we've made, but I also want to be honest about the pitfalls that may
still lie ahead.
Most of all, I want every American to know that each action we take and each policy we pursue is driven by
a larger vision of America's future -- a future where sustained economic growth creates good jobs and rising
incomes; a future where prosperity is fueled not by excessive debt, or reckless speculation, or fleeting
profits, but is instead built by skilled, productive workers, by sound investments that will spread opportunity
at home and allow this nation to lead the world in the technologies and the innovation and discoveries that
will shape the 21st century. That's the America I see. That's the America that Georgetown is preparing so
many of you for. That is the future that I know that we can have.
Now, to understand how we get there, we first need to understand how we got here.
Recessions are not uncommon. Markets and economies naturally ebb and flow, as we've seen many times
in our history. But this recession is different. This recession was not caused by a normal downturn in the
business cycle. It was caused by a perfect storm of irresponsibility and poor decision-making that stretched
from Wall Street to Washington to Main Street.
As has been widely reported, it started in the housing market. During the course of the decade, the formula
for buying a house changed: Instead of saving their pennies to buy their dream house, many Americans
found that suddenly they could take out loans that by traditional standards their incomes just could not
support. Others were tricked into signing these subprime loans by lenders who were trying to make a quick
profit. The reason these loans were so readily available was that Wall Street saw big profits to be made.
Investment banks would buy and package together these questionable mortgages into securities, arguing
that by pooling the mortgages the risks had somehow been reduced. And credit agencies that are supposed
to help investors determine the soundness of various investments stamped the securities with their safest
rating when they should have been labeled "Buyer Beware."
No one really knew what the actual value of these securities were, no one fully understood what the risks
were. But since the housing market was booming and prices were rising, banks and investors just kept
buying and selling them, always passing off the risk to someone else for a greater profit without having to
take any of the ultimate responsibility. Banks took on more debt than they could handle.
The government-chartered companies Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, whose traditional mandate was to help
support traditional mortgages, decided to get in on the action by buying and holding billions of dollars of
these securities. AIG, the biggest insurer in the world that had a very traditional insurance business that was
very profitable, decided to make profits suddenly by selling billions of dollars of complicated financial
instruments that supposedly insured these securities. Everybody was making record profits -- except the
wealth created was real only on paper. And as the bubble grew, there was almost no accountability or
oversight from anyone in Washington.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Then the housing bubble burst. Home prices fell. People began to default on their subprime mortgages. And
the value of all those loans and securities plummeted. Banks and investors couldn't find anyone to buy
them. Greed gave way to fear. Investors pulled their money out of the market. Large financial institutions
that didn't have enough money on hand to pay off all their obligations collapsed. Other banks held on tight to
their money and simply stopped lending.
Now, this is when the crisis spread from Wall Street to Main Street. After all, the ability to get a loan is how
you finance the purchase of everything from a home to a car to, as you all know very well, a college
education. It's how stores stock their shelves, and farms buy equipment, and businesses make payroll. So
when banks stopped lending money, businesses started laying off workers. When laid-off workers had less
money to spend, businesses were forced to lay off even more workers. When people couldn't get a car loan,
a bad situation at the auto companies became even worse. When people couldn't get home loans, the crisis
in the housing market only deepened. Because the infected securities were being traded worldwide and
other nations also had weak regulations, this recession soon became global. And when other nations can't
afford to buy our goods, it slows our economy even further.
So this is the situation, the downward spiral that we confronted on the day that we took office. So our most
urgent task has been to clear away the wreckage, repair the immediate damage to the economy, and do
everything we can to prevent a larger collapse. And since the problems we face are all working off each
other to feed a vicious economic downturn, we've had no choice but to attack all fronts of our economic
crisis simultaneously.
The first step was to fight a severe shortage of demand in the economy. So the Federal Reserve did this by
dramatically lowering interest rates last year in order to boost investment. My administration and Congress
boosted demand by passing the largest recovery plan in our nation's history. It's a plan that's already in the
process of saving or creating 3.5 million jobs over the next two years. It's putting money directly into
people's pockets with a tax cut for 95 percent of working families that's now showing up in paychecks across
America. And to cushion the blow of this recession, we also provided extended unemployment benefits and
continued health care coverage to Americans who've lost their jobs through no fault of their own.
Now, you will recall that some argued this recovery plan is a case of irresponsible government spending,
that it's somehow to blame for our long-term deficit projections, and that the federal government should be
cutting instead of increasing spending right now. So I want to tackle this argument head on.
To begin with, economists on both the left and the right agree that the last thing a government should do in
the middle of a recession is to cut back on spending. You see, when this recession began, many families sat
around the kitchen table and tried to figure out where they could cut back. And so have many businesses.
And this is a completely reasonable and understandable reaction. But if everybody -- if everybody -- if every
family in America, if every business in America cuts back all at once, then no one is spending any money,
which means there are no customers, which means there are more layoffs, which means the economy gets
even worse. That's why the government has to step in and temporarily boost spending in order to stimulate
demand. That's exactly what we're doing right now.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Second, I absolutely agree that our long-term deficit is a major problem that we have to fix. But the fact is
that this recovery plan represents only a tiny fraction of that long-term deficit. As I'll discuss in a moment, the
key to dealing with our long-term deficit and our national debt is to get a handle on out-of-control health care
costs -- not to stand idly by as the economy goes into free fall.
So the recovery plan has been the first step in confronting this economic crisis. The second step has been
to heal our financial system so that credit is once again flowing to the businesses and families who rely on it.
The heart of this financial crisis is that too many banks and other financial institutions simply stopped
lending money. In a climate of fear, banks were unable to replace their losses from some of those bad
mortgages by raising new capital on their own, and they were unwilling to lend the money they did have
because they were afraid that no one would pay it back. It's for this reason that the last administration used
what they called the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, to provide these banks with temporary
financial assistance in order to get them lending again.
Now, I understand that TARP is not popular, and I have to say that I don't agree with some of the ways the
TARP program was managed, but I do agree with the broader rationale that we must provide banks with the
capital and the confidence necessary to start lending again. That's the purpose of the stress tests that will
soon tell us how much additional capital will be needed to support lending at our largest banks. Ideally,
these needs will be met by private investors who are willing to put in money to these banks. But where that's
not possible, and banks require substantial additional resources from the government, then we will hold
accountable those who are responsible, we'll force the necessary adjustments, we'll provide the support to
clean up those bank balance sheets, and we will assure the continuity of a strong and viable institution that
can serve our people and our economy.
Of course, there are some who differ with our approach. On the one hand, there are some who argue that
the government should stand back and simply let these banks fail -- especially since in many cases it was
their bad decisions that helped create the crisis in the first place. But whether we like it or not, history has
shown repeatedly that when nations do not take early and aggressive action to get credit flowing again, they
have crises that last years and years instead of months and months -- years of low growth, years of low job
creation, years of low investment, all of which cost these nations far more than a course of bold, upfront
action.
And although there are a lot of Americans who understandably think that government money would be
better spent going directly to families and businesses instead of to banks -- one of my most frequent
questions in the letters that I get from constituents is, "Where's my bailout?" -- and I understand the
sentiment. It makes sense intuitively, and morally it makes sense, but the truth is that a dollar of capital in a
bank can actually result in $8 or $10 of loans to families and businesses. So that's a multiplier effect that
can ultimately lead to a faster pace of economic growth. That's why we have to fix the banks.
Now, on the other hand, there have been some who don't dispute that we need to shore up the banking
system, but they suggest that we've been too timid in how we go about it. This is essentially the
nationalization argument that some of you may have heard. And the argument says that the federal
government should have already preemptively stepped in and taken over major financial institutions the way
that the FDIC currently intervenes in smaller banks, and that our failure, my administration's failure to do so
is yet another example of Washington coddling Wall Street -- "Why aren't you tougher on the banks?"

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So let me be clear: The reason we have not taken this step has nothing to do with any ideological or political
judgment we've made about government involvement in banks. It's certainly not because of any concern we
have for the management and shareholders whose actions helped to cause this mess. Rather, it's because
we believe that preemptive government takeovers are likely to end up costing taxpayers even more in the
end, and because it's more likely to undermine than create confidence.
Governments should practice the same principle as doctors: First, do no harm. So rest assured -- we will do
whatever is necessary to get credit flowing again, but we will do so in ways that minimize risks to taxpayers
and to the broader economy. To that end, in addition to the program to provide capital to the banks, we've
launched a plan that will pair government resources with private investment in order to clear away the old
loans and securities -- the so-called toxic assets -- that are also preventing our banks from lending money.
Now, what we've also learned during this crisis is that our banks aren't the only institutions affected by these
toxic assets that are clogging the financial system. AIG, for example, is not a bank, it's an insurance
company, as I mentioned -- and yet because it chose to insure billions of dollars worth of risky assets,
essentially creating a hedge fund on top of an insurance company, its failure could threaten the entire
financial system and freeze lending even more. And that's why, as frustrating as it is -- and I promise you,
nobody is more frustrated than me with AIG -- I promise -- we had to provide support for AIG, because the
entire system, as fragile as it is, could be profoundly endangered if AIG went into a liquidation bankruptcy.
It's also why we need new legal authority so that we have the power to intervene in such financial
institutions, the same way that bankruptcy courts currently do with businesses that hit hard times but don't
pose systemic risks -- and that way we can restructure these businesses in an orderly way that doesn't
induce panic in the financial system -- and, by the way, will allow us to restructure inappropriate bonus
contracts without creating a perception the government can just change compensation rules on a whim.
This is also why we're moving aggressively to unfreeze markets and jumpstart lending outside the banking
system, where more than half of all lending in America actually takes place. To do this, we've started a
program that will increase guarantees for small business loans and unlock the market for auto loans and
student loans. And to stabilize the housing market, we've launched a plan that will save up to four million
responsible homeowners from foreclosure and help many millions more to refinance their homes.
In a few weeks, we will also reassess the state of Chrysler and General Motors, two companies with an
important place in our history and a large footprint in our economy -- but two companies that have also fallen
on hard times.
Late last year, the companies were given transitional loans by the previous administration to tide them over
as they worked to develop viable business plans. Unfortunately, the plans they developed fell short, so
we've given them some additional time to work these complex issues through. And by the way, we owed
that not to the executives whose bad bets contributed to the weakening of their companies, but to the
hundreds of thousands of workers whose livelihoods hang in the balance -- entire towns, entire
communities, entire states are profoundly impacted by what happens in the auto industry.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, it is our fervent hope that in the coming weeks, Chrysler will find a viable partner and GM will develop
a business plan that will put it on a path to profitability without endless support from American taxpayer. In
the meantime, we're taking steps to spur demand for American cars and provide relief for autoworkers and
their communities. And we will continue to reaffirm this nation's commitment to a 21st-century American
auto industry that creates new jobs and builds the fuel-efficient cars and trucks that will carry us toward a
clean-energy future.
Finally, to coordinate a global response to this global recession, I went to the meeting of the G20 nations in
London the other week. Each nation has undertaken significant stimulus to spur demand. All agreed to
pursue tougher regulatory reforms. We also agreed to triple the lending capacity of the International
Monetary Fund -- which, as many of you know, is an international financial institution supported by all the
major economies -- so that they can provide direct assistance to developing nations and vulnerable
populations. That's not just charity; because America's success depends on whether other nations have the
ability to buy what we sell, it's important that we pay attention to these emerging markets.
We pledged to avoid the trade barriers and protectionism that hurts us all in the end. And we decided to
meet again in the fall to gauge our progress and take additional steps if necessary.
So that's where we've been, that's what we've done in the last three months. All of these actions -- the
Recovery Act, the bank capitalization program, the housing plan, the strengthening of the non-bank credit
market, the auto plan, and our work at the G20 -- all have been necessary pieces of the recovery puzzle.
They've been designed to increase aggregate demand to get credit flowing again to families and businesses
and to help families and businesses ride out the storm. And taken together, these actions are starting to
generate signs of economic progress.
Because of our recovery plan, schools and police departments have cancelled planned layoffs; clean energy
companies and construction companies are re-hiring workers to build everything from energy-efficient
windows to new roads and highways. Our housing plan has helped lead to a spike in the number of
homeowners who are taking advantage of historically-low mortgage rates by refinancing, which is like
putting a $2,000 tax cut in your pocket. Our program to support the market for auto loans and student loans
has started to unfreeze this market and securitize more of this lending in the last few weeks. And small
businesses are seeing a jump in loan activity for the first time in months.
Now, this is all welcome and encouraging news. It does not mean the hard times are over; 2009 will
continue to be a difficult year for America's economy, and obviously, most difficult for those who've lost their
jobs. The severity of this recession will cause more job loss, more foreclosures, and more pain before it
ends. The market will continue to rise and fall. Credit is still not flowing nearly as easily as it should. The
process for restructuring AIG and the auto companies will involve difficult and sometimes unpopular
choices; we are not finished yet on that front. And all of this means that there's much more work to be done.
But all of this also means that you can continue to expect an unrelenting, unyielding, day-by-day effort from
this administration to fight for economic recovery on all fronts.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
But even as we continue to clear away the wreckage and address the immediate crisis, it is my firm belief
that our next task, beginning now, is to make sure such a crisis never happens again. Even as we clean up
balance sheets and get credit flowing again, even as people start spending and businesses start hiring -- all
that's going to happen -- we have to realize that we cannot go back to the bubble-and-bust economy that led
us to this point.
It is simply not sustainable to have a 21st-century financial system that is governed by 20th-century rules
and regulations that allowed the recklessness of a few to threaten the entire economy. It is not sustainable
to have an economy where in one year, 40 percent of our corporate profits came from a financial sector that
was based on inflated home prices, maxed-out credit cards, over-leveraged banks and overvalued assets.
It's not sustainable to have an economy where the incomes of the top 1 percent has skyrocketed while the
typical working household has seen their incomes decline by nearly $2,000. That's just not a sustainable
model for long-term prosperity.
For even as too many were out there chasing ever-bigger bonuses and short-term profits over the last
decade, we continued to neglect the long-term threats to our prosperity: the crushing burden that the rising
cost of health care is placing on families and businesses; the failure of our education system to prepare our
workers for a new age; the progress that other nations are making on clean energy industries and
technologies while we -- we remain addicted to foreign oil; the growing debt that we're passing on to our
children. Even after we emerge from the current recession, these challenges will still represent major
obstacles that stand in the way of our success in the 21st century. So we've got a lot of work to do.
Now, there's a parable at the end of the Sermon on the Mount that tells the story of two men. The first built
his house on a pile of sand, and it was soon destroyed when a storm hit. But the second is known as the
wise man, for when "the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that
house, it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock."
It was founded upon a rock. We cannot rebuild this economy on the same pile of sand. We must build our
house upon a rock. We must lay a new foundation for growth and prosperity -- a foundation that will move
us from an era of borrow and spend to one where we save and invest; where we consume less at home and
send more exports abroad.
It's a foundation built upon five pillars that will grow our economy and make this new century another
American century: Number one, new rules for Wall Street that will reward drive and innovation, not reckless
risk-taking; number two, new investments in education that will make our workforce more skilled and
competitive; number three, new investments in renewable energy and technology that will create new jobs
and new industries; number four, new investments in health care that will cut costs for families and
businesses; and number five, new savings in our federal budget that will bring down the debt for future
generations.
That's the new foundation we must build. That's our house built upon a rock. That must be our future -- and
my administration's policies are designed to achieve that future.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Let me talk about each of these steps in turn. The first step we will take to build this foundation is to reform
the outdated rules and regulations that allowed this crisis to happen in the first place. It is time to lay down
tough new rules of the road for Wall Street to ensure that we never find ourselves here again. Just as after
the Great Depression new rules were designed for banks to avoid the kind of reckless speculation that
helped to create the depression, so we've got to make adaptations to our current set of rules: create rules
that punish shortcuts and abuse; rules that tie someone's pay to their actual job performance --- a novel
concept; rules that protect typical American families when they buy a home, get a credit card or invest in a
401(k). So we've already begun to work with Congress to shape this comprehensive new regulatory
framework -- and I expect a bill to arrive on my desk for my signature before the year is out.
The second pillar of this new foundation is an education system that finally prepares our workers for a 21st
century economy. You know, in the 20th century, the G.I. Bill helped send a generation to college. For
decades we led the world in educational attainment, and as a consequence we led the world in economic
growth. But in this new economy, we've come to trail the world's leaders in graduation rates, in educational
achievement, in the production of scientists and engineers. That's why we have set a goal that will greatly
enhance our ability to compete for the high-wage, high-tech jobs of the 21st century: By 2020, America will
once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world. That is the goal that we have set
and we intend to do.
To meet that goal, we have to start early. So we've already dramatically expanded early childhood
education. We are investing in innovative programs that have proven to help schools meet high standards
and close achievement gaps. We're creating new rewards that tie teachers' performance and new pathways
for advancement. And I've asked every American to commit to at least one year or more of higher education
or career training, and we have provided tax credits to make a college education more affordable for every
American, even those who attend Georgetown.
And, by the way, one of the changes that I would like to see -- and I'm going to be talking about this in
weeks to come -- is once again seeing our best and our brightest commit themselves to making things -engineers, scientists, innovators. For so long, we have placed at the top of our pinnacle folks who can
manipulate numbers and engage in complex financial calculations. And that's good, we need some of that.
But you know what we can really use is some more scientists and some more engineers, who are building
and making things that we can export to other countries.
Now, the third pillar of this new foundation is to harness the renewable energy that can create millions of
new jobs and new industries. We all know that the country that harnesses this new energy source will lead
the 21st century. Yet we've allowed other countries to outpace us on this race to the future. I don't know
about you, but I do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our
borders. I think it's time for America to lead again.
So the investments we made in the Recovery Act will double this nation's supply of renewable energy in the
next three years. And we are putting Americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so
that we can save billions on our energy bills and grow our economy at the same time.
Now, the only though that we can truly spark the transformation that's need is through a gradual, marketbased cap on carbon pollution, so that clean energy is the profitable kind of energy.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
There are those who've argued that we shouldn't attempt, we shouldn't even be thinking, we shouldn't even
be talking about such a transition until the economy recovers. And they are right that we have to take into
account the costs of transition. Transitioning to a clean energy economy will not be easy. But we can no
longer delay putting a framework for a clean energy economy in place. That needs to be done now.
If businesses and entrepreneurs know today that we are closing this carbon pollution loophole, they'll start
investing in clean energy now. And pretty soon, we'll see more companies constructing solar panels, and
workers building wind turbines, and car companies manufacturing fuel-efficient cars. Investors will put some
money into a new energy technology, and a small business will open to start selling it. That's how we can
grow this economy, enhance our security, and protect our planet at the same time.
Now, the fourth pillar of our new foundation is a 21st century health care system where families, businesses
and government budgets aren't dragged down by skyrocketing insurance premiums. One and a half million
Americans could lose their homes this year just because of a medical crisis. Major American corporations
are struggling to compete with their foreign counterparts. Small businesses are closing their doors. We can't
allow the cost of health care to continue strangling our economy.
And that's why our Recovery Act will invest in electronic health records with strict privacy standards that can
save money and lives and reduce medical error. That's why we've made the largest investment ever in
preventive care, because that's one of the best ways to keep costs under control. And included in the
budgets that just passed Congress is an historic commitment to reform that will finally make quality health
care affordable for every American. So I'm looking forward in the next few months to working with both
parties in Congress to make this reform a reality. We can get this done -- and we have to get it done.
Now, fixing our health care system will -- will require resources; it's not going to be free. But in my budget
we've made a commitment to fully pay for reform without increasing the deficit, and we've identified specific
savings that will make the health care system more efficient and reduce costs for us all.
In fact, we've undertaken an unprecedented effort to find this kind of savings in every corner of the budget,
because the final pillar in building our new foundation is restoring fiscal discipline once this economy
recovers.
Already we've identified $2 trillion dollars in deficit reductions over the next decade. We need to do more,
but we've already done that. We've announced procurement reform that will greatly reduce no-bid contracts
and save the government $40 billion. We need to do more, but that's an important start. Secretary Gates
recently announced a courageous set of reforms that go right at the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste
and cost overruns that have bloated our defense budget without making America safer. We need to do
more, but that proposal by Secretary Gates is right on target. We will end education programs that don't
work, we will root out waste and fraud and abuse in our Medicare program.
Altogether, this budget will reduce discretionary spending for domestic programs as a share of the economy
by more than 10 percent over the next decade to the lowest level we've seen since we began keeping
records nearly half a century ago. And as we continue to go through the federal budget line by line, we will
be announcing additional savings, secured by eliminating and consolidating programs that we don't need so
we can make room for the things that we do need.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's what we're doing now. Of course, I realize that for some, this isn't enough. I know there's a criticism
out there that my administration has been spending with reckless abandon, pushing a liberal social agenda
while mortgaging our children's future. You've heard the argument.
Well, let me make three points. First, as I said earlier, the worst thing that we could do in a recession this
severe is to try to cut government spending at the same time as families and businesses around the world
are cutting back on their spending. So as serious as our deficit and debt problems are -- and they are very
serious -- major efforts to deal with them have to focus on the medium and long-term budget picture, not on
the short-term. And that's exactly what we've done.
Second, in tackling the deficit issue, we simply cannot sacrifice the long-term investments that we so
desperately need to generate long-term prosperity. That's the argument that some critics have made: Well,
you're proposing health care reform, you shouldn't be doing that; you're proposing education investments,
you shouldn't be doing that, that adds to the deficit.
Look, just as a cash-strapped family may cut back on all kinds of luxuries, but will still insist on spending
money to get their children through college, will refuse to have their kids drop out of college and go to work
in some fast-food place, even though that might bring in some income in the short-term, because they're
thinking about the long term -- so we as a country have to make current choices with an eye for the future.
If we don't invest now in renewable energy, if we don't invest now in a skilled workforce, if we don't invest
now in a more affordable health care system, this economy simply won't grow at the pace it needs to in two
or five or 10 years down the road. If we don't lay this new foundation now, it won't be long before we're right
back where we are today. And I can assure you that chronically slow growth will not help our long-term
budget situation. That's the second point.
Third point, the problem with our deficit and debt is not new. It has been building dramatically over the past
eight years, largely because big tax cuts combined with increased spending on two wars and the increased
costs of government health care programs have pushed it ever upwards. This structural gap in our budget,
between the amount of money that's coming in and the amount of money that's going out, will only get
worse as the baby boomers age, and will in fact lead us down an unsustainable path.
But let's not kid ourselves and suggest that we can solve this problem by trimming a few earmarks or cutting
the budget for the National Endowment for the Arts. That's just not true. Along with defense and interest on
the national debt, the biggest cost drivers in our budget are entitlement programs like Medicare, Medicaid,
and Social Security -- all of which get more and more expensive every year. So if we want to get serious
about fiscal discipline, and I do, then we're going to not only have to trim waste out of our discretionary
budget -- which we've already begun -- we will also have to get serious about entitlement reform.
Now, nothing will be more important to this goal than passing health care reform that brings down costs
across the system, including in Medicare and Medicaid. So make no mistake, health care reform is
entitlement reform. That's not just my opinion -- that was the conclusion of a wide range of participants at
the Fiscal Responsibility Summit that we held at the White House in February. And that's one of the reasons
why I firmly believe we need to get health care reform done this year.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Once we tackle rising health care costs, we must also work to put Social Security on firmer footing. It's time
for both parties to come together and find a way to keep the promise of a sound retirement for future
generations. And we should restore a sense of fairness and balance to our tax code including by shutting
down corporate loopholes and ensuring that everyone pays what they owe.
All of these efforts will require tough choices. All these efforts will require compromise. But the difficulties
can't serve as an excuse for inaction -- not anymore -- which brings me to one final point I'd like to make
today. I've talked a lot about the fundamental weakness in our economy that led us to this day of reckoning.
But we also arrived here because of a fundamental weakness in our political system.
For too long, too many in Washington put off hard decisions for some other time on some other day. There's
been a tendency to spend a lot of time scoring political points instead of rolling up sleeves to solve real
problems.
There's also an impatience that characterizes this town -- an attention span that has only grown shorter with
the 24-hour news cycle that insists on instant gratification in the form of immediate results or higher poll
numbers. When a crisis hits, there's all too often a lurch from shock to trance, with everyone responding to
the tempest of the moment until the furor has died down, the media coverage has moved on to something
else, instead of confronting the major challenges that will shape our future in a sustained and focused way.
This can't be one of those times. The challenges are too great. The stakes are too high. I know how difficult
it is for members of Congress in both parties to grapple with some of the big decisions we face right now. I'd
love if these problems were coming at us one at a time instead of five or six at a time. It's more than most
Congresses and most Presidents have to deal with in a lifetime.
But we have been called to govern in extraordinary times. And that requires an extraordinary sense of
responsibility -- to ourselves, to the men and women who sent us here, to the many generations whose lives
will be affected for good or for ill because of what we do here.
There is no doubt that times are still tough. By no means are we out of the woods just yet. But from where
we stand, for the very first time, we're beginning to see glimmers of hope. And beyond that, way off in the
distance, we can see a vision of an America's future that is far different than our troubled economic past. It's
an America teeming with new industry and commerce, humming with new energy and discoveries that light
the world once more -- a place where anyone from anywhere with a good idea or the will to work can live the
dream they've heard so much about.
That is the house upon the rock -- proud, sturdy, unwavering in the face of the greatest storms. And we will
not finish it in one year. We will not finish it in many. But if we use this moment to lay that new foundation, if
we come together and begin the hard work of rebuilding, if we persist and persevere against the
disappointments and setbacks that will surely lie ahead, then I have no doubt that this house will stand and
the dream of our founders will live on in our time.
Thank you. God bless you. God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329731" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Nobel_Lecture.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Nobel%20Lecture.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Nobel Lecture
delivered 10 December 2009, Oslo City Hall, Oslo, Norway

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Your Majesties, Your Royal Highnesses, distinguished members of the Norwegian Nobel
Committee, citizens of America, and citizens of the world:
I receive this honor with deep gratitude and great humility. It's an award that speaks to our
highest aspirations -- that for all the cruelty and hardship of our world, we are not mere
prisoners of fate. Our actions matter, and can bend history in the direction of justice.
And yet, I would be remiss if I did not acknowledge the considerable controversy that your
generous decision has generated. In part, this is because I am at the beginning, and not the
end, of my labors on the world stage. Compared to some of the giants of history who've
received this prize -- Schweitzer and King, Marshall and Mandela -- my accomplishments are
slight. And then there are the men and women around the world who've been jailed and
beaten in the pursuit of justice; those who toil in humanitarian organizations to relieve
suffering; the unrecognized millions whose quiet acts of courage and compassion inspire even
the most hardened cynics. I cannot argue with those who find these men and women -- some
known, some obscure to all but those they help -- to be far more deserving of this honor than
I.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But perhaps the most profound issue surrounding my receipt of this prize is the fact that I am
the Commander-in-Chief of the military of a nation in the midst of two wars. One of these
wars is winding down. The other is a conflict that America did not seek, one in which we are
joined by 42 other countries -- including Norway -- in an effort to defend ourselves and all
nations from further attacks.
Still, we are at war. And I am responsible1 for the deployment of thousands of young
Americans to battle in a distant land. Some will kill; and some will be killed. And so I come
here with an acute sense of the costs of armed conflict -- filled with difficult questions about
the relationship between war and peace, and our effort to replace one with the other.
Now these questions are not new. War, in one form or another, appeared with the first
man. At the dawn of history, its morality was not questioned; it was simply a fact, like
drought or disease -- the manner in which tribes and then civilizations sought power and
settled their differences.
And over time, as codes of law sought to control violence within groups, so did philosophers
and clerics and statesmen seek to regulate the destructive power of war. The concept of a
"just war" emerged, suggesting that war is justified only when certain conditions were met: if
it is waged as a last resort or in self-defense; if the force used is proportional; and if,
whenever possible, civilians are spared from violence.
Of course, we know that for most of history, this concept of "just war" was rarely
observed. The capacity of human beings to think up new ways to kill one another proved
inexhaustible, as did our capacity to exempt from mercy those who look different or pray to a
different God. Wars between armies gave way to wars between nations -- total wars in which
the distinction between combatant and civilian became blurred. In the span of 30 years, such
carnage would twice engulf this continent. And while it's hard to conceive of a cause more just
than the defeat of the Third Reich and the Axis powers, World War II was a conflict in which
the total number of civilians who died exceeded the number of soldiers who perished.
In the wake of such destruction, and with the advent of the nuclear age, it became clear to
victor and vanquished alike that the world needed institutions to prevent another world
war. And so a quarter century after the United States Senate rejected the League of Nations - an idea for which Woodrow Wilson received this prize -- America led the world in
constructing an architecture to keep the peace: a Marshall Plan, and a United Nations;
mechanisms to govern the waging of war, treaties to protect human rights, prevent genocide,
restrict the most dangerous weapons.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
In many ways, these efforts succeeded. Yes, terrible wars have been fought, and atrocities
committed. But there has been no Third World War. The Cold War ended with jubilant crowds
dismantling a wall. Commerce has stitched much of the world together. Billions have been
lifted from poverty. The ideals of liberty and self-determination, equality, and the rule of law
have haltingly advanced. We are the heirs of the fortitude and foresight of generations past,
and it is a legacy for which my own country is rightfully proud.
And yet, a decade into a new century, this old architecture is buckling under the weight of
new threats. The world may no longer shudder at the prospect of war between two nuclear
superpowers, but proliferation may increase the risk of catastrophe. Terrorism has long been a
tactic, but modern technology allows a few small men with outsized rage to murder innocents
on a horrific scale.
Moreover, wars between nations have increasingly given way to wars within nations. The
resurgence of ethnic or sectarian conflicts; the growth of secessionist movements,
insurgencies, and failed states -- all these things have increasingly trapped civilians in
unending chaos. In today's wars, many more civilians are killed than soldiers; the seeds of
future conflict are sown, economies are wrecked, civil societies torn asunder, refugees
amassed, children scarred.
I do not bring with me today a definitive solution to the problems of war. What I do know is
that meeting these challenges will require the same vision, hard work, and persistence of
those men and women who acted so boldly decades ago. And it will require us to think in new
ways about the notions of "just war" and the imperatives of a just peace.
We must begin by acknowledging a hard truth: We will not eradicate violent conflict in our
lifetimes. There will be times when nations, acting individually or in concert, will find the use
of force not only necessary but morally justified.
I make this statement mindful of what Martin Luther King Jr. said in this same ceremony
years ago: "Violence never brings permanent peace. It solves no social problem. It merely
creates new and more complicated ones." As someone who stands here as a direct
consequence of Dr. King's life work, I am living testimony to the moral force of non-violence. I
know there's nothing weak, nothing passive, nothing naïve in the creed and lives of Gandhi
and King.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
But as a head of state sworn to protect and defend my nation, I cannot be guided by their
examples alone. I face the world as it is and cannot stand idle in the face of threats to the
American people. For make no mistake: Evil does exist in the world. A non-violent movement
could not have halted Hitler's armies. Negotiations cannot convince al Qaeda's leaders to lay
down their arms. To say that force may sometimes be necessary is not a call to cynicism. It is
a recognition of history, the imperfections of man, and the limits of reason.
I raise this point, I begin with this point because in many countries there is a deep
ambivalence about military action today -- no matter what the cause. And at times, this is
joined by a reflexive suspicion of America, the world's sole military superpower.
Yet, the world must remember that it was not simply international institutions -- not just
treaties and declarations -- that brought stability to a post-World War II world. Whatever
mistakes we have made, the plain fact is this: The United States of America has helped
underwrite global security for more than six decades with the blood of our citizens and the
strength of our arms. The service and sacrifice of our men and women in uniform has
promoted peace and prosperity from Germany to Korea, and enabled democracy to take hold
in places like the Balkans. We have borne this burden not because we seek to impose our
will. We have done so out of enlightened self-interest -- because we seek a better future for
our children and grandchildren, and we believe that their lives will be better if others' children
and grandchildren can live in freedom and prosperity.
So yes, the instruments of war do have a role to play in preserving the peace. And yet this
truth must coexist with another: that no matter how justified, war promises human
tragedy. The soldier's courage and sacrifice is full of glory -- expressing devotion to country,
to cause, to comrades in arms. But war itself is never glorious; and we must never trumpet it
as such.
So part of our challenge is reconciling these two seemingly irreconcilable truths: that war is
sometimes necessary; and war at some level is an expression of human folly. Concretely, we
must direct our effort to the task that President Kennedy called for long ago. "Let us focus,"
he said, "on a more practical, more attainable peace, based not on a sudden revolution in
human nature but on a gradual evolution in human institutions."
A gradual evolution of human institutions.
What might this evolution look like?

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
What might these practical steps be?
To begin with, I believe that all nations, strong and weak alike, must adhere to standards that
govern the use of force. I, like any head of state, reserve the right to act unilaterally if
necessary to defend my nation. Nevertheless, I am convinced that adhering to standards,
international standards, strengthens those who do and isolates and weakens those who don't.
The world rallied around America after the 9/11 attacks and continues to support our efforts in
Afghanistan, because of the horror of those senseless attacks and the recognized principle of
self-defense. Likewise, the world recognized the need to confront Saddam Hussein when he
invaded Kuwait -- a consensus that sent a clear message to all about the cost of aggression.
Furthermore, America -- in fact, no nation -- can insist that others follow the rules of the road
if we refuse to follow them ourselves. For when we don't, our actions appear arbitrary and
undercut the legitimacy of future interventions, no matter how justified.
And this becomes particularly important when the purpose of military action extends beyond
self-defense or the defense of one nation against an aggressor. More and more, we all
confront difficult questions about how to prevent the slaughter of civilians by their own
government, or to stop a civil war whose violence and suffering can engulf an entire region.
I believe that force can be justified on humanitarian grounds, as it was in the Balkans, or in
other places that have been scarred by war. Inaction tears at our conscience and can lead to
more costly intervention later. That's why all responsible nations must embrace the role that
militaries with a clear mandate can play to keep the peace.
America's commitment to global security will never waver. But in a world in which threats are
more diffuse and missions more complex America cannot act alone. America alone cannot
secure the peace. This is true in Afghanistan. This is true in failed states like Somalia, where
terrorism and piracy is joined by famine and human suffering. And sadly, it will continue to be
true in unstable regions for years to come.
The leaders and soldiers of NATO countries, and other friends and allies, demonstrate this
truth through the capacity and courage they've shown in Afghanistan. But in many countries,
there is a disconnect between the efforts of those who serve and the ambivalence of the
broader public. I understand why war is not popular, but I also know this: The belief that
peace is desirable is rarely enough to achieve it.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Peace requires responsibility.
Peace entails sacrifice.
That's why NATO continues to be indispensable. That's why we must strengthen U.N. and
regional peacekeeping, and not leave the task to a few countries. That's why we honor those
who return home from peacekeeping and training abroad to Oslo and Rome, to Ottawa and
Sydney, to Dhaka and Kigali. We honor them not as makers of war, but as -- of wagers -- but
as wagers of peace.
Let me make one final point about the use of force. Even as we make difficult decisions about
going to war, we must also think clearly about how we fight it. The Nobel Committee
recognized this truth in awarding its first prize for peace to Henry Dunant -- the founder of the
Red Cross, and a driving force behind the Geneva Conventions.
Where force is necessary, we have a moral and strategic interest in binding ourselves to
certain rules of conduct. And even as we confront a vicious adversary that abides by no rules,
I believe the United States of America must remain a standard bearer in the conduct of war.
That is what makes us different from those whom we fight. That is a source of our
strength. That is why I prohibited torture. That is why I ordered the prison at Guantanamo
Bay closed. And that is why I have reaffirmed America's commitment to abide by the Geneva
Conventions. We lose ourselves when we compromise the very ideals that we fight to
defend. And we honor -- we honor those ideals by upholding them not when it's easy, but
when it is hard.
I've spoken at some length to the question that must weigh on our minds and our hearts as
we choose to wage war. But let me now turn to our effort to avoid such tragic choices, and
speak of three ways that we can build a just and lasting peace.
First, in dealing with those nations that break rules and laws, I believe that we must develop
alternatives to violence that are tough enough to actually change behavior. For if we want a
lasting peace, then the words of the international community must mean something. Those
regimes that break the rules must be held accountable. Sanctions must exact a real price.
Intransigence must be met with increased pressure -- and such pressure exists only when the
world stands together as one.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
One urgent example is the effort to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons, and to seek a
world without them. In the middle of the last century, nations agreed to be bound by a treaty
whose bargain is clear: All will have access to peaceful nuclear power; those without nuclear
weapons will forsake them; and those with nuclear weapons will work towards disarmament. I
am committed to upholding this treaty. It is a centerpiece of my foreign policy. And I'm
working with President Medvedev to reduce America and Russia's nuclear stockpiles.
But it is also incumbent upon all of us to insist that nations like Iran and North Korea do not
game the system. Those who claim to respect international law cannot avert their eyes when
those laws are flouted. Those who care for their own security cannot ignore the danger of an
arms race in the Middle East or East Asia. Those who seek peace cannot stand idly by as
nations arm themselves for nuclear war.
The same principle applies to those who violate international laws by brutalizing their own
people. When there is genocide in Darfur, systematic rape in Congo, repression in Burma -there must be consequences. Yes, there will be engagement. Yes, there will be diplomacy. But
there must be consequences when those things fail. And the closer we stand together, the
less likely we will be faced with the choice between armed intervention and complicity in
oppression.
This brings me to a second point: the nature of the peace that we seek. For peace is not
merely the absence of visible conflict. Only a just peace based on the inherent rights and
dignity of every individual can truly be lasting. It was this insight that drove drafters of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights after the Second World War. In the wake of
devastation, they recognized that if human rights are not protected, peace is a hollow
promise.
And yet, too often these words are ignored. For some countries, the failure to uphold human
rights is excused by the false suggestion that these are somehow Western principles, foreign
to local cultures or stages of a nation's development. And within America, there's long been a
tension between those who describe themselves as realists or idealists -- a tension that
suggests a stark choice between the narrow pursuit of interests or an endless campaign to
impose our values around the world.
I reject these choices. I believe that peace is unstable where citizens are denied the right to
speak freely or worship as they please; choose their own leaders or assemble without fear.
Pent-up grievances fester, and the suppression of tribal and religious identity can lead to
violence. We also know that the opposite is true. Only when Europe became free did it finally

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
find peace. America has never fought a war against a democracy, and our closest friends are
governments that protect the rights of their citizens. No matter how callously defined, neither
America's interests -- nor the world's -- are served by the denial of human aspirations.
So even as we respect the unique culture and traditions of different countries, America will
always be a voice for those aspirations that are universal. We will bear witness to the quiet
dignity of reformers like Aung Sang Suu Kyi, to the bravery of Zimbabweans who cast their
ballots in the face of beatings, to the hundreds of thousands who have marched silently
through the streets of Iran. It is telling that the leaders of these governments fear the
aspirations of their own people more than the power of any other nation. And it is the
responsibility of all free people and free nations to make clear that these movements -- these
movements of hope and history -- they have us on their side.
Let me also say this: The promotion of human rights cannot be about exhortation alone. At
times, it must be coupled with painstaking diplomacy. I know that engagement with
repressive regimes lacks the satisfying purity of indignation. But I also know that sanctions
without outreach -- condemnation without discussion -- can carry forward only a crippling
status quo. No repressive regime can move down a new path unless it has the choice of an
open door.
In light of the Cultural Revolution's horrors, Nixon's meeting with Mao appeared inexcusable -and yet it surely helped set China on a path where millions of its citizens have been lifted from
poverty and connected to open societies. Pope John Paul's engagement with Poland created
space not just for the Catholic Church, but for labor leaders like Lech Walesa. Ronald Reagan's
efforts on arms control and embrace of perestroika not only improved relations with the Soviet
Union, but empowered dissidents throughout Eastern Europe. There's no simple formula here.
But we must try as best we can to balance isolation and engagement, pressure and incentives,
so that human rights and dignity are advanced over time.
Third, a just peace includes not only civil and political rights -- it must encompass economic
security and opportunity. For true -- true peace is not just freedom from fear, but freedom
from want. It is undoubtedly true that development rarely takes root without security; it is
also true that security does not exist where human beings do not have access to enough food,
or clean water, or the medicine and shelter they need to survive. It does not exist where
children can't aspire to a decent education or a job that supports a family. The absence of
hope can rot a society from within.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why helping farmers feed their own people, or nations educate their children and
care for the sick, is not mere charity. It's also why the world must come together to confront
climate change. There is little scientific dispute that if we do nothing, we will face more
drought, more famine, more mass displacement -- all of which will fuel more conflict for
decades. For this reason, it is not merely scientists and environmental activists who call for
swift and forceful action. It's military leaders in my own country and others who understand
our common security hangs in the balance.
Agreements among nations. Strong institutions. Support for human rights. Investments in
development. All these are vital ingredients in bringing about the evolution that President
Kennedy spoke about. And yet, I do not believe that we will have the will, the determination,
the staying power, to complete this work without something more; and that's the continued
expansion of our moral imagination -- an insistence that there's something irreducible that we
all share.
As the world grows smaller, you might think it would be easier for human beings to recognize
how similar we are -- to understand that we're all basically seeking the same things, that we
all hope for the chance to live out our lives with some measure of happiness and fulfillment for
ourselves and our families.
And yet, somehow, given the dizzying pace of globalization, the cultural leveling of modernity,
it perhaps comes as no surprise that people fear the loss of what they cherish in their
particular identities -- their -- their race, their tribe, and perhaps most powerfully their
religion. In some places, this fear has led to conflict. At times, it even feels like we're moving
backwards. We see it in the Middle East, as the conflict between Arabs and Jews seems to
harden. We see it in nations that are torn asunder by tribal lines.
And most dangerously, we see it in the way that religion is used to justify the murder of
innocents by those who have distorted and defiled the great religion of Islam, and who
attacked my country from Afghanistan. These extremists are not the first to kill in the name of
God. The cruelties of the Crusades are amply recorded. But they remind us that no Holy War
can ever be a just war. For if you truly believe that you are carrying out divine will, then there
is no need for restraint -- no need to spare the pregnant mother, or the medic, or the Red
Cross worker, or even a person of one own's [sic] faith.
Such a warped view of religion is not just incompatible with the concept of peace, but I
believe it's incompatible with the very purpose of faith: For the one rule that lies at the heart
of every major religion is that we do unto others as we would have them do unto us. Adhering

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
to this law of love has always been the core struggle of human nature. For we are fallible. We
make mistakes, and fall victim to the temptations of pride, and power, and sometimes evil.
Even those of us with the best of intentions will at time[s] fail to right the wrongs before us.
But we do not have to think that human nature is perfect for us to still believe that the human
condition can be perfected. We do not have to live in an idealized world to still reach for those
ideals that will make it a better place. The non-violence practiced by men like Gandhi and King
may not have been practical or possible in every circumstance, but the love that they
preached -- their fundamental faith in human progress -- that must always be the North Star
that guides us on our journey.
For if we lose that faith -- if we dismiss it as silly or naïve; if we divorce it from the decisions
that we make on issues of war and peace -- then we lose what's best about humanity. We
lose our sense of possibility. We lose our moral compass.
Like generations have before us, we must reject that future. As Dr. King said at this occasion
so many years ago, "I refuse to accept despair as the final response to the ambiguities of
history. I refuse to accept the idea that the 'isness' of man's present condition makes him
morally incapable of reaching up for the eternal 'oughtness' that forever confronts him." Let us
reach for the world that ought to be -- that spark of the divine that still st[i]rs within each of
our souls.
Somewhere today, in the here and now, in the world as it is, a soldier sees he's outgunned,
but stands firm to keep the peace. Somewhere today, in this world, a young protestor awaits
the brutality of her government, but has the courage to march on. Somewhere today, a
mother facing punishing poverty still takes the time to teach her child, scrapes together what
few coins she has to send that child to school -- because she believes that a cruel world still
has a place for that child's dreams.
Let us live by their example. We can acknowledge that oppression will always be with us, and
still strive for justice. We can admit the intractability of depravation, and still strive for
dignity. Clear-eyed, we can understand that there will be war, and still strive for peace. We
can do that -- for that is the story of human progress; that's the hope of all the world; and at
this moment of challenge, that must be our work here on Earth.
Thank you very much.
1

possibly heard as "I have been responsible...."

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329774" filename="Barack_Obama_-_No_Child_Left_Behind_Blueprint.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20No%20Child%20Left%20Behind%20Blueprint.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Weekly Address: Education for a More Competitive America
delivered 13 March 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Lost in the news of the week was a headline that ought to be a source of concern for every
American. It said, “Many Nations Passing U.S. in Education.” Now, debates in Washington
tend to be consumed with the politics of the moment: who’s up in the daily polls; whose party
stands to gain in November. But what matters to you -- what matters to our country -- is not
what happens in the next election, but what we do to lift up the next generation. And the fact
is, there are few issues that speak more directly to our long term success as a nation than
issues concerning the education we provide to our children.
Our prosperity in the 20th century was fueled by an education system that helped grow the
middle class and unleash the talents of our people more fully and widely than at any time in
our history. We built schools and focused on the teaching of math and science. We helped a
generation of veterans go to college through the GI Bill. We led the globe in producing college
graduates, and in turn we led in producing ground-breaking technologies and scientific
discoveries that lifted living standards and set us apart as the world’s engine of innovation.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Of course, other nations recognize this, and are looking to gain an edge in the global
marketplace by investing in better schools, supporting teachers, and committing to clear
standards that will produce graduates with more skills. Our competitors understand that the
nation that out-educates us today will out-compete us tomorrow. Yet, too often we have
failed to make inroads in reforming and strengthening our public education system -- the
debate mired in worn arguments hurled across entrenched divides.
As a result, over the last few decades, we’ve lost ground. One assessment shows American
fifteen year olds no longer even near the top in math and science when compared to their
peers around the world. As referenced in the news report I mentioned, we’ve now fallen
behind most wealthy countries in our high school graduation rates. And while we once led the
world in the proportion of college graduates we produced, today we no longer do.
Not only does that risk our leadership as a nation, it consigns millions of Americans to a lesser
future. For we know that the level of education a person attains is increasingly a prerequisite
for success and a predictor of the income that person will earn throughout his or her life.
Beyond the economic statistics is a less tangible but no less painful reality: unless we take
action -- unless we step up -- there are countless children who will never realize their full
talent and potential.
I don’t accept that future for them. And I don’t accept that future for the United States of
America. That’s why we’re engaged in a historic effort to redeem and improve our public
schools: to raise the expectations for our students and for ourselves, to recognize and reward
excellence, to improve performance in troubled schools, and to give our kids and our country
the best chance to succeed in a changing world.
Under the leadership of an outstanding Education Secretary, Arne Duncan, we launched a
Race to the Top, through which states compete for funding by committing to reform and
raising standards, by rewarding good teaching, by supporting the development of better
assessments to measure results, and by emphasizing math and science to help prepare
children for college and careers.
And on Monday, my administration will send to Congress our blueprint for an updated
Elementary and Secondary Education Act to overhaul No Child Left Behind. What this plan
recognizes is that while the federal government can play a leading role in encouraging the
reforms and high standards we need, the impetus for that change will come from states, and
from local schools and school districts. So, yes, we set a high bar -- but we also provide
educators the flexibility to reach it.
Under these guidelines, schools that achieve excellence or show real progress will be
rewarded, and local districts will be encouraged to commit to change in schools that are
clearly letting their students down. For the majority of schools that fall in between -- schools
that do well but could do better -- we will encourage continuous improvement to help keep
our young people on track for a bright future: prepared for the jobs of the 21st century.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And because the most important factor in a child’s success is the person standing at the front
of the classroom, we will better prepare teachers, support teachers, and encourage teachers
to stay in the field. In short, we’ll treat the people who educate our sons and daughters like
the professionals they are.
Through this plan we are setting an ambitious goal: All students should graduate from high
school prepared for college and a career -- no matter who you are or where you come from.
Achieving this goal will be difficult. It will take time. And it will require the skills, talents, and
dedication of many: principals, teachers, parents, students. But this effort is essential for our
children and for our country. And while there will always be those cynics who claim it can’t be
done, at our best, we know that America has always risen to the challenges that we’ve faced.
This challenge is no different.
As a nation, we are engaged in many important endeavors: improving the economy,
reforming the health care system, encouraging innovation in energy and other growth
industries of the 21st century. But our success in these efforts -- and our success in the
future as a people -- will ultimately depend on what happens long before an entrepreneur
opens his doors, or a nurse walks the rounds, or a scientist steps into her laboratory. Our
future is determined each and every day, when our children enter the classroom, ready to
learn and brimming with promise.
It’s that promise we must help them fulfill.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329564" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Nomination_Victory.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Nomination%20Victory.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Democratic Presidential Nomination Victory Speech
delivered 3 June 2008, St. Paul, Minnesota

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you....Thank you. What a -- What a wonderful reception. Thank you, Saint Paul. Thank
you, Minnesota.
Thank you, JoAnn Syverson, for the wonderful introduction.
Thank you, Michelle Obama and Malia Obama and Sasha Obama. Thank you to my brothers
and sisters. Thank you to -- Thank you to my staff. Thank you to our volunteers. Thank you to
my political team. Thank you to our campaign manager, David Plouffe, who never gets any
credit, but has built the best political organization in the country.
Thank you to my grandmother, who helped raise me, and is sitting in Hawaii somewhere right
now because she can't travel, but who poured everything she had into me, and who helped to
make me the man I am today. Tonight is for her.
Tonight, Minnesota, after 54 hard-fought contests, our primary season has finally come to an
end. Sixteen -- Sixteen months have passed since we first stood together on the steps of the
Old State Capitol in Springfield, Illinois. Thousands of miles have been traveled; millions of
voices have been heard.
And because of what you said, because you decided that change must come to Washington,
because you believed that this year must be different than all the rest, because -- because
you chose to listen not to your doubts or your fears, but to your greatest hopes and highest
aspirations, tonight we mark the end of one historic journey with the beginning of another, a
journey -- a journey that will bring a new and better day to America.
Because of you, tonight I can stand here and say that I will be the Democratic nominee for
the President of the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I want to -- I want to thank -- I want to thank -- I want to thank all those in Montana and
South Dakota who stood up for change today. I want to thank every American who stood with
us over the course of this campaign, through the good days and the bad, from the snows of
Cedar Rapids to the sunshine of Sioux Falls.
And, tonight, I also want to thank the men and woman who took this journey with me as
fellow candidates for President. You know, at this defining moment -- At this defining moment
for our nation, we should be proud that our Party put forth one of the most talented, qualified
field of individuals ever to run for office. I have not just competed with them as rivals. I’ve
learned from them as friends, as public servants, and as patriots who love America and are
willing to work tirelessly to make this country better. They are leaders of this Party and
leaders that America will turn to for years to come.
And that is particularly true for the candidate who has traveled further on this journey than
anyone else: Senator Hillary Clinton has made history in this campaign. She has made history
not -- not just because she’s a woman who has done what no woman has done before, but
because she is a leader who inspires millions of Americans with her strength, her courage, and
her commitment to the causes that brought us here tonight. I congratulate her on her victory
in South Dakota, and I congratulate her on the race that she has run throughout this contest.
We’ve certainly had our differences over the last 16 months. But as someone who’s shared a
stage with her many times, I can tell you that what gets Hillary Clinton up in the morning -even in the face of tough odds -- is exactly what sent her and Bill Clinton to sign up for their
first campaign in Texas all those years ago, what sent her to work at the Children’s Defense
Fund and made her fight for health care as first lady, what led her to the United States Senate
and fueled her barrier-breaking campaign for the presidency: an unyielding desire to improve
the lives of ordinary Americans, no matter how difficult the fight may be.
And you can rest assured that when we finally win the battle for universal health care in this
country -- and we will win that fight -- she will be central to that victory. When we transform
our energy policy and lift our children out of poverty, it will be because she worked to help
make it happen. Our Party and our country are better off because of her, and I am a better
candidate for having had the honor to compete with Hillary Rodham Clinton.
There are those who say that this primary has somehow left us weaker and more divided.
Well, I say that, because of this primary, there are millions of Americans who've cast their
ballot for the very first time. There are -- There are Independents and Republicans who
understand this election isn’t just about a change of Party in Washington, but also about the

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
need to change Washington. There are -- There are young people, and African-Americans, and
Hispanic-Americans, and women of all ages who have voted in numbers that have broken
records and inspired a nation.
All of you chose to support a candidate you believe in deeply. But at the end of the day, we
aren’t the reason you came out and waited in lines that stretched block after block to make
your voice heard. You didn’t do that -- You didn’t do that because of me or Senator Clinton or
anyone else. You did it because you know in your hearts that at this moment, a moment that
will define a generation, we cannot afford to keep doing what we’ve been doing. We owe our
children a better future. We owe our country a better future. And for all those who dream of
that future tonight, I say: Let us begin the work together. Let us unite in common effort to
chart a new course for America.
In just -- In just a few short months, the Republican Party will arrive in St. Paul with a very
different agenda. They will -- They will come here to nominate John McCain, a man who has
served this country heroically. I honor, we honor the service of John McCain, and I respect his
many accomplishments, even if he chooses to deny mine. My -- My differences with him -- My
differences with him are not personal. They are with the policies he has proposed in this
campaign, because while John McCain can legitimately tout moments of independence from
his Party in the past, such independence has not been the hallmark of his presidential
campaign.
It’s not change when John McCain decided to stand with George Bush 95 percent of the time,
as he did in the Senate last year.
It’s not change when he offers four more years of Bush economic policies that have failed to
create well-paying jobs, or insure our workers, or help Americans afford the skyrocketing cost
of college, policies that have lowered the real incomes of the average American family, and
widened the gap between Wall Street and Main Street, and left our children with a mountain
of debt.
It’s not change when he promises to continue a policy in Iraq that asks everything of our
brave men and women in uniform and nothing of Iraqi politicians, a policy where all we look
for are reasons to stay in Iraq, while we spend billions of dollars a month on a war that isn’t
making the American people any safer. So -- So, I’ll say this: There are many words to
describe John McCain’s attempt to pass off his embrace of George Bush’s policies as bipartisan
and new, but “change” is not one of them. “Change” is not one of them, because change is a

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
foreign policy that doesn’t begin and end with a war that should’ve never been authorized and
never been waged.
I won’t stand here and pretend that there are many good options left in Iraq, but what’s not
an option is leaving our troops in that country for the next hundred years, especially at a time
when our military is overstretched, our nation is isolated, and nearly every other threat to
America is being ignored. We -- We must be -- We must be as careful getting out of Iraq as
we were careless getting in, but we -- but start leaving we must. It’s time for Iraqis to take
responsibility for their future. It’s time to rebuild our military and give our veterans the care
and the benefits they deserve when they come home.
It’s time -- It's time to refocus our efforts on Al Qaida’s leadership and Afghanistan, and rally
the world against the common threats of the 21st century: terrorism and nuclear weapons,
climate change and poverty, genocide and disease. That’s what change is.
Change -- Change, Minnesota, is realizing that meetings [sic] today’s threats requires not just
our firepower, but the power of our diplomacy: tough -- tough, direct diplomacy, where the
President of the United States isn’t afraid to let any petty dictator know where America stands
and what we stand for. We must once again have the courage and the conviction to lead the
free world. That is the legacy of Roosevelt and Truman and Kennedy. That’s what the
American people demand. That’s what change is.
Change is building an economy that rewards not just wealth, but the work and the workers
who created it. It’s understanding that the struggles facing working families can’t be solved by
spending billions of dollars on more tax breaks for big corporations and wealthy CEOs, but by
giving a middle-class tax break to those who need it, and investing in our crumbling
infrastructure, and transforming how we use energy, and improving our schools, and renewing
our commitment to science and innovation. It’s understanding that fiscal responsibility and
shared prosperity can go hand-in-hand, as they did when Bill Clinton was President.
John McCain has spent a lot of time talking about trips to Iraq in the last few weeks, but
maybe if he spent some time taking trips to the cities and towns that have been hardest hit by
this economy -- cities in Michigan, and Ohio, and right here in Minnesota -- he’d understand
the kind of change that people are looking for.
Maybe if he went to Iowa and met the student who works the night shift after a full day of
class and still can’t pay the medical bills for a sister who’s ill, he’d understand she can’t afford
four more years of a health care plan that only takes care of the healthy and the wealthy. She

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
needs us to pass health care right now, a plan that guarantees insurance to every American
who wants it and brings down premiums for every family who needs it. That’s the change we
need, Minnesota.
Maybe -- Maybe if John McCain went to Pennsylvania and he met the man who lost his job,
but can’t even afford the gas to drive around and look for a new one, he’d understand we
can’t afford four more years of our addiction to oil from dictators. That man needs us to pass
an energy policy that works with automakers to raise fuel standards, and makes corporations
pay for their pollution, and oil companies invest their record profits in a clean energy future,
an energy policy that will create millions of new jobs that pay well and can’t be outsourced.
That’s the change we need, Minnesota.
And maybe if John McCain spent some time in the schools of South Carolina or St. Paul,
Minnesota, or where he spoke tonight in New Orleans, Louisiana, he’d understand that we
can’t afford to leave the money behind for No Child Left Behind; that we owe it to our children
to invest in early-childhood education; and recruit an army of new teachers and give them
better pay and more support; and finally decide that, in this global economy, the chance to
get a college education should not be a privilege for the few, but a birthright of every
American. That’s the change we need in America. That’s why I’m running for President of the
United States.
Now -- Now, the other side will come here in September and offer a very different set of
policies and positions, and that is a good thing. That is a debate I look forward to. It is a
debate that the American people deserve on the issues that will help determine the future of
this country and the future for our children. But what you don’t deserve is another election
that’s governed by fear, and innuendo, and division. What you won’t hear from this campaign
or this Party is the kind of politics that uses religion as a wedge and patriotism as a bludgeon.
What you won’t see from this campaign or this Party is a politics that sees our opponents not
as competitors to challenge, but enemies to polarize, because we may call ourselves
Democrats and Republicans, but we are Americans first. We are always Americans first.
Despite -- Despite what the good senator from Arizona may have said tonight, I’ve seen
people of differing views and opinions find common cause many times during my two decades
in public life, and I’ve brought many together myself. I’ve walked arm-in-arm with community
leaders on the south side of Chicago and watched tensions fade as black and white and Latino
fought together for good jobs and good schools. I’ve sat across the table from law
enforcement officials and civil rights advocates to reform a criminal justice system that sent
13 innocent people to death row. I’ve worked with friends in the other Party to provide more

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
children with health insurance and more working families with a tax break, to curb the spread
of nuclear weapons and ensure that the American people know where their tax dollars are
being spent, and to reduce the influence of lobbyists who have all too often set the agenda in
Washington.
In our country -- In our country, I have found that this cooperation happens not because we
agree on everything, but because, behind all the false labels and false divisions and categories
that define us, beyond all the petty bickering and point-scoring in Washington, Americans are
a decent, generous, compassionate people, united by common challenges and common hopes.
And every so often, there are moments which call on that fundamental goodness to make this
country great again. So it was for that band of patriots who declared in a Philadelphia hall the
formation of a more perfect union, and for all those who gave on the fields of Gettysburg and
Antietam their last full measure of devotion to save that same union. So it was for the
greatest generation that conquered fear itself, and liberated a continent from tyranny, and
made this country home to untold opportunity and prosperity. So it was for the workers who
stood out on the picket lines, the women who shattered glass ceilings, the children who
braved a Selma bridge for freedom’s cause. So it has been for every generation that faced
down the greatest challenges and the most improbable odds to leave their children a world
that’s better and kinder and more just.
And so it must be for us.
America, this is our moment. This is our time, our time to turn the page on the policies of the
past, our time to bring new energy and new ideas to the challenges we face, our time to offer
a new direction for this country that we love.
The journey will be difficult. The road will be long. I face this challenge -- I face this challenge
with profound humility and knowledge of my own limitations, but I also face it with limitless
faith in the capacity of the American people.
Because if we are willing to work for it, and fight for it, and believe in it, then I am absolutely
certain that, generations from now, we will be able to look back and tell our children that this
was the moment when we began to provide care for the sick and good jobs to the jobless.
This was the moment when the rise of the oceans began to slow and our planet began to heal.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
This was the moment when we ended a war, and secured our nation, and restored our image
as the last, best hope on Earth.
This was the moment, this was the time when we came together to remake this great nation
so that it may always reflect our very best selves and our highest ideals.
Thank you, Minnesota. God bless you.
God bless the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/19/21

Copyright Status: Restricted, seek permission.

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329663" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Notre_Dame_Commencement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Notre%20Dame%20Commencement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at the University of Notre Dame

Delivered 18 May 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

President Obama: Thank you very much. Thank you, Notre Dame. Thank you. Thank you.
Please, have a seat. Thank you...
Well first of all, congratulations, Class of 2009. Congratulations to all the parents, the cousins,
the aunts, the uncles ­­ all the people who helped to bring you to the point that you are here
today. Thank you so much to Father Jenkins for that extraordinary introduction, even though
you said what I want to say much more elegantly. You are doing an extraordinary job as
president of this extraordinary institution, and your continued and courageous and contagious
commitment to honest, thoughtful dialogue is an inspiration to us all.
So, good afternoon, to Father Hesburgh, to Notre Dame trustees, to faculty, to family. I am
honored to be here today. And I am grateful to all of you for allowing me to be a part of your
graduation. And I also want to thank you for the honorary degree that I received. I know it
has not been without controversy. I don't know if you're aware of this, but these honorary
degrees are apparently pretty hard to come by. So far I'm only 1 for 2 as President.
Father...Hesburgh is 150 for 150. I guess that's better. So, Father Ted after the ceremony
maybe you can give me some pointers to boost my average.
I also want to congratulate the Class of 2009 for all your accomplishments. And since ­­
[Audience member interrupts with pro­life slogans]
President Obama: And since ­­ this is Notre Dame…That's...all right. And since ­­
[Audience chants "We are ND! We are ND!"]

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: We're fine, everybody. We're following Brennan's adage that we don't do
things easily. We're not going to shy away from things that are uncomfortable sometimes.
Now, since ­­ since this is Notre Dame I think we should talk not only about your
accomplishments in the classroom, but also in the competitive arena. No, don't worry, I'm not
going to talk about that. We all know about this university's proud and storied football team,
but I also hear that Notre Dame holds the largest outdoor 5­on­5 basketball tournament in
the world ­­ "Bookstore Basketball."
Now this excites me. I want to congratulate the winners of this year's tournament, a team by
the name of "Hallelujah Holla Back." Congratulations. Well done. Though I have to say, I'm
personally disappointed that the "Barack O'Ballers" did not pull it out this year. So next year,
if you need a 6'2" forward with a decent jumper, you know where I live.
Now, every one of you should be proud of what you've achieved at this institution. One
hundred and sixty­three classes of Notre Dame graduates have sat where you sit today. Some
were here during years that simply rolled into the next without much notice or fanfare ­­
periods of relative peace and prosperity that required little by way of sacrifice or struggle.
You, however, are not getting off that easy. You have a different deal. Your class has come of
age at a moment of great consequence for our nation and for the world ­­ a rare inflection
point in history where the size and scope of the challenges before us require that we remake
our world to renew its promise, that we align our deepest values and commitments to the
demands of a new age. It's a privilege and a responsibility afforded to few generations ­­ and
a task that you're now called to fulfill.
This generation, your generation is the one that must find a path back to prosperity and
decide how we respond to a global economy that left millions behind even before the most
recent crisis hit ­­ an economy where greed and short­term thinking were too often rewarded
at the expense of fairness, and diligence, and an honest day's work.
Your generation must decide how to save God's creation from a changing climate that
threatens to destroy it. Your generation must seek peace at a time when there are those who
will stop at nothing to do us harm, and when weapons in the hands of a few can destroy the
many. And we must find a way to reconcile our ever­shrinking world with its ever­growing
diversity ­­ diversity of thought, diversity of culture, and diversity of belief.
In short, we must find a way to live together as one human family. And it's this last challenge
that I'd like to talk about today, despite the fact that Father John stole all my best lines. For
the major threats we face in the 21st century ­­ whether it's global recession or violent
extremism, the spread of nuclear weapons or pandemic disease ­­ these things do not
discriminate. They do not recognize borders. They do not see color. They do not target specific
ethnic groups. Moreover, no one person, or religion, or nation can meet these challenges
alone. Our very survival has never required greater cooperation and greater understanding
among all people from all places than at this moment in history.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Unfortunately, finding that common ground ­­ recognizing that our fates are tied up, as Dr.
King said, in a "single garment of destiny" ­­ is not easy. And part of the problem, of course,
lies in the imperfections of man ­­ our selfishness, our pride, our stubbornness, our
acquisitiveness, our insecurities, our egos ­­ all the cruelties large and small that those of us
in the Christian tradition understand to be rooted in original sin. We too often seek advantage
over others. We cling to outworn prejudice and fear those who are unfamiliar. Too many of us
view life only through the lens of immediate self­interest and crass materialism ­­ in which the
world is necessarily a zero­sum game. The strong too often dominate the weak, and too many
of those with wealth and with power find all manner of justification for their own privilege in
the face of poverty and injustice.
And so for all our technology and scientific advances, we see here in this country and around
the globe violence and want and strife that would seem sadly familiar to those in ancient
times. We know these things. And hopefully one of the benefits of the wonderful education
that you have received here at Notre Dame is that you've had time to consider these wrongs
in the world, perhaps recognized impulses in yourself that you want to leave behind. You've
grown determined ­­ each in your own way ­­ to right them. And yet one of the vexing things
for those of us interested in promoting greater understanding and cooperation among people
is the discovery that even bringing together persons of good will, bringing together men and
women of principle and purpose ­­ even accomplishing that can be difficult.
The soldier and the lawyer may both love this country with equal passion, and yet reach very
different conclusions on the specific steps needed to protect us from harm. The gay activist
and the evangelical pastor may both deplore the ravages of HIV/AIDS, but find themselves
unable to bridge the cultural divide that might unite their efforts. Those who speak out against
stem cell research may be rooted in an admirable conviction about the sacredness of life, but
so are the parents of a child with juvenile diabetes who are convinced that their son's or
daughter's hardships might be relieved.
The question, then, is how do we work through these conflicts? Is it possible for us to join
hands in common effort? As citizens of a vibrant and varied democracy, how do we engage in
vigorous debate? How does each of us remain firm in our principles, and fight for what we
consider right, without, as Father John said, demonizing those with just as strongly held
convictions on the other side? And of course, nowhere do these questions come up more
powerfully than on the issue of abortion.
As I considered the controversy surrounding my visit here, I was reminded of an encounter I
had during my Senate campaign, one that I describe in a book I wrote called The Audacity of
Hope. In a few days after I won the Democratic nomination, I received an e­mail from a
doctor who told me that while he voted for me in the Illinois primary, he had a serious
concern that might prevent him from voting for me in the general election. He described
himself as a Christian who was strongly pro­life ­­ but that was not what was preventing him
potentially from voting for me.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
What bothered the doctor was an entry that my campaign staff had posted on my website ­­
an entry that said I would fight, quote, "right­wing ideologues who want to take away a
woman's right to choose," unquote. The doctor said he had assumed I was a reasonable
person. He supported my policy initiatives to help the poor and to lift up our educational
system, but that if I truly believed that every pro­life individual was simply an ideologue who
wanted to inflict suffering on women, then I was not very reasonable. He wrote, "I do not ask
at this point that you oppose abortion, only that you speak about this issue in fair­minded
words."
Fair­minded words.
After I read the doctor's letter, I wrote back to him and I thanked him. And I didn't change my
underlying position, but I did tell my staff to change the words on my website. And I said a
prayer that night that I might extend the same presumption of good faith to others that the
doctor had extended to me; because when we do that ­­ when we open up our hearts and our
minds to those who may not think precisely like we do or believe precisely what we believe ­­
that's when we discover at least the possibility of common ground. That's when we begin to
say, "Maybe we won't agree on abortion, but we can still agree that this heart­wrenching
decision for any woman is not made casually, and it has both moral and spiritual dimensions.
So let us work together to reduce the number of women seeking abortions. Let's reduce
unintended pregnancies. Let's make adoption more available. Let's provide care and support
for women who do carry their children to term. Let's honor the conscience of those who
disagree with abortion, and draft a sensible conscience clause, and make sure that all of our
health care policies are grounded not only in sound science, but also in clear ethics, as well as
respect for the equality of women. Those are things we can do.
Now, understand, Class of 2009, I do not suggest that the debate surrounding abortion can or
should go away, because no matter how much we may want to fudge it ­­ indeed, while we
know that the views of most Americans on the subject are complex and even contradictory ­­
the fact is that at some level, the views of the two camps are irreconcilable. Each side will
continue to make its case to the public with passion and conviction. But surely we can do so
without reducing those with differing views to caricature.
Open hearts. Open minds. Fair­minded words. It's a way of life that has always been the
Notre Dame tradition. Father Hesburgh has long spoken of this institution as both a lighthouse
and a crossroads, a lighthouse that stands apart, shining with the wisdom of the Catholic
tradition, while the crossroads is where "differences of culture and religion and conviction can
co­exist with friendship, civility, hospitality, and especially love." And I want to join him and
Father John in saying how inspired I am by the maturity and responsibility with which this
class has approached the debate surrounding today's ceremony. You are an example of what
Notre Dame is about.
Now, this tradition of cooperation and understanding is one that I learned in my own life many
years ago ­­ also with the help of the Catholic Church.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
You see, I was not raised in a particularly religious household, but my mother instilled in me a
sense of service and empathy that eventually led me to become a community organizer after I
graduated college. And a group of Catholic churches in Chicago helped fund an organization
known as the "Developing Communities Project," and we worked to lift up South Side
neighborhoods that had been devastated when the local steel plant closed.
And it was quite an eclectic crew ­­ Catholic and Protestant churches, Jewish and African
American organizers, working­class black, white, and Hispanic residents ­­ all of us with
different experiences, all of us with different beliefs; but all of us learned to work side by side
because all of us saw in these neighborhoods other human beings who needed our help to find
jobs and improve schools. We were bound together in the service of others.
And something else happened during the time I spent in these neighborhoods, perhaps
because the church folks I worked with were so welcoming and understanding; perhaps
because they invited me to their services and sang with me from their hymnals; perhaps
because I was really broke and they fed me; perhaps because I witnessed all of the good
works their faith inspired them to perform, I found myself drawn not just to the work with the
church; I was drawn to be in the church. It was through this service that I was brought to
Christ.
And at the time, Cardinal Joseph Bernardin was the Archbishop of Chicago. And for those of
you too young to have known him or known of him, he was a kind and good and wise man; a
saintly man. I can still remember him speaking at one of the first organizing meetings I
attended on the South Side. He stood as both a lighthouse and a crossroads ­­ unafraid to
speak his mind on moral issues ranging from poverty and AIDS and abortion to the death
penalty and nuclear war. And yet, he was congenial and gentle in his persuasion, always
trying to bring people together, always trying to find common ground. And just before he
died, a reporter asked Cardinal Bernardin about this approach to his ministry. And he said,
"You can't really get on with preaching the Gospel until you've touched hearts and minds."
My heart and mind were touched by him. They were touched by the words and deeds of the
men and women I worked alongside in parishes across Chicago. And I'd like to think that we
touched the hearts and minds of the neighborhood families whose lives we helped change. For
this, I believe, is our highest calling.
Now, you, Class of 2009, are about to enter the next phase of your life at a time of great
uncertainty. You'll be called to help restore a free market that's also fair to all who are willing
to work. You'll be called to seek new sources of energy that can save our planet; to give
future generations the same chance that you had to receive an extraordinary education. And
whether as a person drawn to public service, or simply someone who insists on being an
active citizen, you will be exposed to more opinions and ideas broadcast through more means
of communication than ever existed before. You'll hear talking heads scream on cable; and
you'll read blogs that claim definitive knowledge; and you will watch politicians pretend they
know what they're talking about.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Occasionally, you may have the great fortune of actually seeing important issues debated by
people who do know what they're talking about ­­ by well­intentioned people with brilliant
minds and mastery of the facts. In fact, I suspect that some of you will be among those
brightest stars.
And in this world of competing claims about what is right and what is true, have confidence in
the values with which you've been raised and educated. Be unafraid to speak your mind when
those values are at stake. Hold firm to your faith and allow it to guide you on your journey. In
other words, stand as a lighthouse. But remember, too, that you can be a crossroads.
Remember, too, that the ultimate irony of faith is that it necessarily admits doubt. It's the
belief in things not seen. It's beyond our capacity as human beings to know with certainty
what God has planned for us or what He asks of us. And those of us who believe must trust
that His wisdom is greater than our own.
And this doubt should not push us away our faith. But it should humble us. It should temper
our passions, cause us to be wary of too much self­righteousness. It should compel us to
remain open and curious and eager to continue the spiritual and moral debate that began for
so many of you within the walls of Notre Dame. And within our vast democracy, this doubt
should remind us even as we cling to our faith to persuade through reason, through an
appeal, whenever we can, to universal rather than parochial principles, and most of all
through an abiding example of good works and charity and kindness and service that moves
hearts and minds.
For if there is one law that we can be most certain of, it is the law that binds people of all
faiths and no faith together. It's no coincidence that it exists in Christianity and Judaism, in
Islam and Hinduism, in Buddhism and humanism. It is, of course, the Golden Rule ­­ the call
to treat one another as we wish to be treated. The call to love. The call to serve. To do what
we can to make a difference in the lives of those with whom we share the same brief moment
on this Earth. So many of you at Notre Dame ­­ by the last count, upwards of 80 percent ­­
have lived this law of love through the service you've performed at schools and hospitals,
international relief agencies and local charities. Brennan is just one example of what your
class has accomplished. That's incredibly impressive, a powerful testament to this institution.
And now you must carry the tradition forward. Make it a way of life. Because when you serve,
it doesn't just improve your community, it makes you a part of your community. It breaks
down walls. It fosters cooperation. And when that happens ­­ when people set aside their
differences, even for a moment, to work in common effort toward a common goal; when they
struggle together, and sacrifice together, and learn from one another ­­ then all things are
possible.
After all, I stand here today, as President and as an African American, on the 55th anniversary
of the day that the Supreme Court handed down the decision in Brown versus Board of
Education. Now, Brown was of course the first major step in dismantling the "separate but
equal" doctrine. But it would take a number of years and a nationwide movement to fully
realize the dream of civil rights for all of God's children.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
There were freedom rides and lunch counters and Billy clubs, and there was also a Civil Rights
Commission appointed by President Eisenhower. It was the 12 resolutions recommended by
this commission that would ultimately become law in the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
There were six members of this commission. It included five whites and one African American,
Democrats and Republicans, two Southern governors, the dean of a Southern law school, a
Midwestern university president, and your own Father Ted Hesburgh, President of Notre
Dame. So they worked for two years, and at times President Eisenhower had to intervene
personally since no hotel or restaurant in the South would serve the black and white members
of the commission together. And finally when they reached an impasse in Louisiana, Father
Ted flew them all to Notre Dame's retreat in Land O'Lakes, Wisconsin ­­ where they eventually
overcame their differences and hammered out a final deal.
And years later, President Eisenhower asked Father Ted how on earth he was able to broker
an agreement between men of such different backgrounds and beliefs. And Father Ted simply
said that during their first dinner in Wisconsin they discovered they were all fishermen. And so
he quickly readied a boat for a twilight trip out on the lake. They fished, and they talked, and
they changed the course of history.
I will not pretend that the challenges we face will be easy, or that the answers will come
quickly, or that all our differences and divisions will fade happily away ­­ because life is not
that simple. It never has been. But as you leave here today, remember the lessons of Cardinal
Bernardin, of Father Hesburgh, of movements for change both large and small. Remember
that each of us, endowed with the dignity possessed by all children of God, has the grace to
recognize ourselves in one another; to understand that we all seek the same love of family,
the same fulfillment of a life well lived. Remember that in the end, in some way we are all
fishermen.
If nothing else, that knowledge should give us faith that through our collective labor, and
God's providence, and our willingness to shoulder each other's burdens, America will continue
on its precious journey towards that more perfect union. Congratulations, Class of 2009.
May God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329836" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Nurses_Association.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Nurses%20Association.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the American Nurses Association
delivered 16 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, everybody! All right, everybody have a seat. I got a lot to say here. First of all, I want
to just thank Becky Patton for the extraordinary work that she has done on behalf of nurses,
on behalf of patients, on behalf of the country. Thank you so much. We are proud of
everything that she’s done. And her mom is in the house -- so, thanks, Mom. Good job.
Good job with Becky.
I want to thank Marla Weston, the CEO of the American Nurses Association. And I also want
to acknowledge the presence here of Dr. Mary Wakefield, who is our -- for those of you who
are not familiar, she is the administrator of HRSA and our highest-ranking nurse in the
administration -- and does absolutely great work.
Now, I want to tell you, it is an honor to speak to the ANA, representing more than 3 million
registered nurses across the country. Part of the reason I’m here is because I promised I was
going to come, and I told to Becky that I don’t break promises to nurses because you never
know when I’m going to need a shot. And I don’t want them working that needle all kind of -“I can’t find a vein.” So I’m keeping my promises.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But it’s not just out of fear. It’s also because I love nurses. I love nurses. Now, I’m not just
saying that because I’m talking to a roomful of nurses. There are representatives from Illinois
here in the house -- and they will testify I loved nurses before I got to Washington. And I
don’t think I’m alone in that, because virtually all of us, at one time or another in our lives,
have known the care and the skill that you offer. In hours of need, in moments where people
are most vulnerable, most worried, nurses are there, doing difficult and lifesaving work.
And you don’t just provide clean bandages or an intravenous line. A nurse will hold your hand
sometime, or offer a voice of calm, or that knowing glance that says things are going to be
okay.
And when Malia was born, I remember vividly the nurses who took care of Michelle and our
new baby. The doctor who delivered is actually one of our best friends, but she was there
about 10 minutes. And the nurse was there the whole time tending to this new family of
ours. That was a happy day. Now, there was another day when our youngest daughter,
Sasha -- she was three months old -- was diagnosed with meningitis. And it was nurses who
walked us through what was happening, and who, along with the doctors, helped make sure
that Sasha was all right and that her father did not have a breakdown.
So, as a father, as a husband, I will forever be in debt to the women and men of your
profession. And I know that millions of others feel the same way. America’s nurses are the
beating heart of our medical system. You’re on the front lines -- You are on the front lines of
health care in small clinics and in large hospitals, in rural towns and in big cities, all across
America.
And it’s because you know our health care system so well that you’ve been such a fierce
advocate for its reform. Because after all, you care for patients who end up in the emergency
room, or in surgery, because they couldn’t afford the preventive care that would have made
more invasive and costly treatment unnecessary. You are asked not only to take care of
patients -- you’ve got to navigate a tangle of rules and forms and paperwork that drive up
costs and prevent you from doing the best job possible.
You’re the ones who see the terror in a parent’s eyes when an insurance company bureaucrat
has denied coverage for a child’s treatment. And you’re the ones who have to comfort people
who are wracked with worry not only about getting better, but also about paying for health
care because they’ve hit a cap on benefits or their insurance doesn’t cover a preexisting
condition.
So nurses have seen the consequences of our decades-old failure to reform our health care
system -- the rising costs, the increased uninsured, the mixed up incentives, the
overburdened providers, and a complex system that has been working a lot better for
insurance companies than it’s working for the American people -- or for providers.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that's why, almost a year ago, nurses from across the country came to the White House
to help make the case for reform -- for making coverage more affordable, and extending
coverage to millions without it; for giving doctors and nurses more freedom to help their
patients; for providing families and small businesses with more control over their health
insurance; and for ending the worst and most abusive practices of the insurance industry.
And after a long and tough fight, we succeeded -- yes, we did -- in passing health care
reform. Thanks to you. And that reform will make a positive difference in the lives of the
American people.
Now, this fight wasn’t new for the ANA. I understand you were one of the only major health
care organizations that supported the creation of Medicare from the start. And I want to
recognize one of your leaders -- Jo Eleanor Elliott of Colorado, who is here today and was your
president back then -- for the courage and leadership she showed. Where is she? There you
are right there. Give her a big round of applause.
So you’ve been there before and you were here this time. And I want to thank the ANA for
advocating for health care reform -- for ensuring that the voices of nurses and of patients
were heard.
Now, already, we’re seeing the start of a profound shift as reforms begin to take effect. We’re
giving ordinary consumers and small businesses more power and protection in the health care
system -- and we’re knocking down barriers that stand between you and the people who you
care for.
A few weeks ago, 4 million small business owners and organizations got a postcard in their
mailbox from the IRS. Now, usually that's not good news. But this time it was because it told
them that they could be eligible for a health care tax cut this year -- a tax cut worth
potentially tens of thousands of dollars for those small businesses; a tax cut that will help
millions to provide coverage to their employees. That's happening now.
In many cases, young adults without health insurance are now able to stay on their parents’
plan until they’re 26 years old. Even though insurance companies had until September to
comply with this rule, we asked them to do so immediately to avoid coverage gaps for young
adults, and most have agreed.
Starting this month, relief is also available to businesses for providing coverage to retirees
who are not yet eligible for Medicare. And as of last week, senior citizens who fall into the
doughnut hole have started receiving a $250 rebate to help them afford their medication -and we’re going to keep on going until we close that doughnut hole completely. In the
meantime, we’re strengthening Medicare by going after the billions of dollars in waste and
fraud and abuse in the system. And states like Maine and Connecticut are beginning to
predict budget savings as pieces of reform come online.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we’ve begun making coverage more affordable. In addition, the new health care law has
also started to end the worst insurance industry practices. You know them. For too long,
we’ve been held hostage to an industry that jacks up premiums and drops coverage whenever
they please. Those days are coming to an end.
So after my administration demanded that a large insurance company justify a massive
premium increase on Californians, the company backed off its plan. My Secretary of Health
and Human Services, Kathleen Sebelius, has urged states to investigate other rate hikes.
We’ve set up a new Office of Consumer Information and Insurance Oversight. And we’ll
provide grants to states running the best oversight programs to root out bad practices when it
comes to premiums.
Now, as of September, the new health care law prohibits insurance companies from dropping
people’s coverage when they get sick, which is critical to giving people some peace of mind.
But when news reports indicated that an insurance company was dropping the coverage of
women diagnosed with breast cancer, my administration called on them to end the practice
immediately -- don’t wait till September. And soon after, the entire industry announced that
it would comply with the new law early and stop this perverse practice of dropping people’s
insurance when they fall ill and when they need coverage the most.
Some were also questioning whether insurance companies could find a loophole in the new
law and continue to discriminate against children with preexisting conditions. So we called on
insurance companies to step up, provide coverage to our most vulnerable Americans. And the
insurance industry has agreed.
In just two weeks, Americans denied coverage because of preexisting conditions will be able
to enroll in a new national insurance pool. And for states that opt to run their own pools -using funds from the new law -- we’re urging them to begin enrolling people as soon as
possible. And these pools are going to provide some short-term relief, but they're temporary.
They’re going to ensure that folks who have been shut out of the market because they’ve
been sick can access more affordable insurance starting right away. But what we want is
these health insurance exchanges up and running in a few years, so that, at that point, this
kind of discrimination will finally be banned forever. And that’s when those -- that's when the
millions without coverage, including people with preexisting conditions, will have the access to
the same types of insurance plans that members of Congress get. And you know those must
be pretty good.
We’re also going to be putting in place a patient’s bill of rights that will tell insurance
companies that they can’t put a restrictive limit on the amount of coverage you get in your
lifetime, or in a given year. It will prevent insurance companies from rescinding your
coverage when you get sick because of an administrative error. It will provide simple and
clear information to consumers about their choices and their rights.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And beyond making insurance more affordable and more secure, reform also will mean
changes that make it easier for you -- the backbone of the health care system -- to do your
jobs. Already, over the past year, we’ve made one of the largest investments in the nursing
and health workforce in recent history. We passed landmark reforms to make college more
affordable, which can help more people gain a nursing degree -- even as we provide grants
and aid for more than 15,000 nurses seeking graduate degrees and other training.
And we’ve begun the transition to private and secure computerized health records, because
this will not only reduce errors and costs -- I know you can’t read those doctors’ handwriting - it will mean you can spend more time with patients and less time with paperwork. And
that's why you got into the profession.
Now, there is more work to do. And that's why today my administration is announcing a
number of investments to expand the primary care workforce. This includes funding to allow
students training part-time to become nurse practitioners to start training full-time. We want
to speed up the process where folks go from the classroom into the exam room. And we’re
going to provide resources for clinics run by registered nurses and nurse practitioners.
Without these nurses, many people in cities and rural areas would have no access to care at
all. Now, all of these steps are part of a larger effort to make our system work better for
nurses and for doctors, and to improve the quality of care for patients. And by focusing on
primary medicine, we will finally recognize the role of all talented and skilled health care
providers -- including nurses.
I don’t have to tell you that nurses all too often have been given short shrift. Even amidst a
nursing shortage, when there are cutbacks, you feel the squeeze in salaries or the reduction in
shifts -- despite being overworked and underpaid. And, as you know, this disregard goes
beyond numbers on a ledger. There have been a bunch of times, I’m sure, when the service
you rendered is thought to be less consequential or valuable than that of other professions.
That's what has to change.
It’s important that we not only ensure that you have the support to do your jobs -- we’re
seeking to elevate and value the work that you do, because -- throughout our history, nurses
have done more than provide care and comfort to those in need. Often with little power or
sway on their own, nurses -- mostly women, historically -- have been a force of will and a
sense of common decency, and paved the way towards better care and a more compassionate
society -- from Clara Barton’s treatment of wounded soldiers at Antietam, to the advocacy of
Dorothea Dix on behalf of people with mental disabilities, to the countless nurses whose
names we’ll never know.
One of America’s greatest poets, Walt Whitman, also served as a nurse during the Civil War.
And the experience changed him forever. Later, he would reflect on that time, on both the
heartbreak and the fulfillment he found during those years.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And he wrote:
I thread my way through the hospitals,
The hurt and wounded I pacify with soothing hand,
I sit by the restless all the dark night,
Some are so young, some suffer so much,
I recall the experience sweet and sad
Sweet and sad. Your jobs are tough. Your days can be stressful and exhausting and
sometimes thankless. But through long shifts and late nights -- in the hectic scrum of the
emergency room, or in those quiet acts of humanity -- you are saving lives, you are offering
solace, you’re helping to make us a better nation. And my task as President -- our task as a
people -- is to ensure that our health care system is worthy of your efforts. Our mission must
be to live up to the values you uphold each and every day.
So, thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America. Thank you,
everybody. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329744" filename="Barack_Obama_-_NW_Flight_253_Update.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20NW%20Flight%20253%20Update.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Statement on the Attempted Christmas Day Terrorist Bombing Attack in Detroit
delivered 29 December 2009, Kaneohe Bay Marine Base, Kaneohe, Hawaii

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio]

Good morning. Yesterday I updated the American people on the immediate steps we took -the increased screening and security of air travel -- to keep our country safe in the wake of
the attempted terrorist attack on Christmas Day. And I announced two reviews -- a review of
our terrorist watch list system and a review of our air travel screening, so we can find out
what went wrong, fix it and prevent future attacks.
Those reviews began on Sunday and are now underway. Earlier today I issued the former [sic]
guidelines for those reviews and directed that preliminary findings be provided to the White
House by this Thursday. It's essential that we diagnose the problems quickly and deal with
them immediately.
Now, the more comprehensive, formal reviews and recommendations for improvement will be
completed in the coming weeks, and I'm committed to working with Congress and our
intelligence, law enforcement and homeland security communities to take all necessary steps
to protect the country.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I wanted to speak to the American people again today because some of this preliminary
information that has surfaced in the last 24 hours raises some serious concerns. It's been
widely reported that the father of the suspect in the Christmas incident warned U.S. officials in
Africa about his son's extremist views. It now appears that weeks ago this information was
passed to a component of our intelligence community, but was not effectively distributed so as
to get the suspect's name on a no-fly list.
There appears to be other deficiencies as well. Even without this one report there were bits of
information available within the intelligence community that could have and should have been
pieced together. We've achieved much since 9/11 in terms of collecting information that
relates to terrorists and potential terrorist attacks. But it's becoming clear that the system
that has been in place for years now is not sufficiently up to date to take full advantage of the
information we collect and the knowledge we have.
Had this critical information been shared it could have been compiled with other intelligence
and a fuller, clearer picture of the suspect would have emerged. The warning signs would
have triggered red flags and the suspect would have never been allowed to board that plane
for America.
The professionalism of the men and women in our intelligence, counterterrorism and law
enforcement and homeland security communities is extraordinary. They are some of the most
hardworking, most dedicated Americans that I've ever met. In pursuit of our security here at
home they risk their lives, day in and day out, in this country and around the world.
Few Americans see their work, but all Americans are safer because of their successes. They
have targeted and taken out violent extremists, they have disrupted plots and saved countless
American lives; they are making real and daily progress in our mission to disrupt, dismantle
and defeat al Qaeda and other extremist networks around the world. And for this every
American owes them a profound and lasting debt of gratitude.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Moreover, as Secretary Napolitano has said, once the suspect attempted to take down Flight
253 -- after his attempt it's clear that passengers and crew, our homeland security systems
and our aviation security took all appropriate actions. But what's also clear is this: When our
government has information on a known extremist and that information is not shared and
acted upon as it should have been, so that this extremist boards a plane with dangerous
explosives that could cost nearly 300 lives, a systemic failure has occurred. And I consider
that totally unacceptable.
The reviews I've ordered will surely tell us more. But what already is apparent is that there
was a mix of human and systemic failures that contributed to this potential catastrophic
breach of security. We need to learn from this episode and act quickly to fix the flaws in our
system, because our security is at stake and lives are at stake.
I fully understand that even when every person charged with ensuring our security does what
they are trained to do, even when every system works exactly as intended there is still no one
hundred percent guarantee of success. Yet, this should only compel us to work even harder,
to be even more innovative and relentless in our efforts.
As President I will do everything in my power to support the men and women in intelligence,
law enforcement and homeland security to make sure they've got the tools and resources they
need to keep America safe. But it's also my job to ensure that our intelligence, law
enforcement and homeland security systems and the people in them are working effectively
and held accountable. I intend to fulfill that responsibility and insist on accountability at every
level.
That's the spirit guiding our reviews into the attempted attack on Christmas Day. That's the
spirit that will guide all our efforts in the days and years ahead.
Thank you very much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329898" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Odyssey_Dawn.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Odyssey%20Dawn.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
On Authorization of Odyssey Dawn, Ltd Military Action in Libya
delivered 19 March 2011, The Convention Center Brasil 21, Brasilia, Brazil

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good afternoon, everybody. Today I authorized the Armed Forces of the United States to
begin a limited military action in Libya in support of an international effort to protect Libyan
civilians. That action has now begun.
In this effort, the United States is acting with a broad coalition that is committed to enforcing
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1973, which calls for the protection of the Libyan
people. That coalition met in Paris today to send a unified message, and it brings together
many of our European and Arab partners.
This is not an outcome that the United States or any of our partners sought. Even yesterday,
the international community offered Muammar Qaddafi the opportunity to pursue an
immediate cease-fire, one that stopped the violence against civilians and the advances of
Qaddafi’s forces. But despite the hollow words of his government, he has ignored that
opportunity. His attacks on his own people have continued. His forces have been on the
move. And the danger faced by the people of Libya has grown.
I am deeply aware of the risks of any military action, no matter what limits we place on it. I
want the American people to know that the use of force is not our first choice and it’s not a
choice that I make lightly. But we cannot stand idly by when a tyrant tells his people that
there will be no mercy, and his forces step up their assaults on cities like Benghazi and
Misurata, where innocent men and women face brutality and death at the hands of their own
government.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
So we must be clear: Actions have consequences, and the writ of the international
community must be enforced. That is the cause of this coalition.
As a part of this effort, the United States will contribute our unique capabilities at the front
end of the mission to protect Libyan civilians, and enable the enforcement of a no-fly zone
that will be led by our international partners. And as I said yesterday, we will not -- I repeat - we will not deploy any U.S. troops on the ground.
As Commander-in-Chief, I have great confidence in the men and women of our military who
will carry out this mission. They carry with them the respect of a grateful nation.
I'm also proud that we are acting as part of a coalition that includes close allies and partners
who are prepared to meet their responsibility to protect the people of Libya and uphold the
mandate of the international community.
I've acted after consulting with my national security team, and Republican and Democratic
leaders of Congress. And in the coming hours and days, my administration will keep the
American people fully informed. But make no mistake: Today we are part of a broad
coalition. We are answering the calls of a threatened people. And we are acting in the
interests of the United States and the world.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329924" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Osama_bin_Laden_Death.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Osama%20bin%20Laden%20Death.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
On the Death of Osama Bin Laden

delivered 1 May 2011

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good evening. Tonight, I can report to the American people and to the world that the United
States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden, the leader of al Qaeda, and a
terrorist who’s responsible for the murder of thousands of innocent men, women, and
children.
It was nearly 10 years ago that a bright September day was darkened by the worst attack on
the American people in our history. The images of 9/11 are seared into our national memory - hijacked planes cutting through a cloudless September sky; the Twin Towers collapsing to
the ground; black smoke billowing up from the Pentagon; the wreckage of Flight 93 in
Shanksville, Pennsylvania, where the actions of heroic citizens saved even more heartbreak
and destruction.
And yet we know that the worst images are those that were unseen to the world. The empty
seat at the dinner table. Children who were forced to grow up without their mother or their
father. Parents who would never know the feeling of their child’s embrace. Nearly 3,000
citizens taken from us, leaving a gaping hole in our hearts.
On September 11, 2001, in our time of grief, the American people came together. We offered
our neighbors a hand, and we offered the wounded our blood. We reaffirmed our ties to each
other, and our love of community and country. On that day, no matter where we came from,
what God we prayed to, or what race or ethnicity we were, we were united as one American
family.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We were also united in our resolve to protect our nation and to bring those who committed
this vicious attack to justice. We quickly learned that the 9/11 attacks were carried out by al
Qaeda -- an organization headed by Osama bin Laden, which had openly declared war on the
United States and was committed to killing innocents in our country and around the globe.
And so we went to war against al Qaeda to protect our citizens, our friends, and our allies.
Over the last 10 years, thanks to the tireless and heroic work of our military and our
counterterrorism professionals, we’ve made great strides in that effort. We’ve disrupted
terrorist attacks and strengthened our homeland defense. In Afghanistan, we removed the
Taliban government, which had given bin Laden and al Qaeda safe haven and support. And
around the globe, we worked with our friends and allies to capture or kill scores of al Qaeda
terrorists, including several who were a part of the 9/11 plot.
Yet Osama bin Laden avoided capture and escaped across the Afghan border into Pakistan.
Meanwhile, al Qaeda continued to operate from along that border and operate through its
affiliates across the world. And so shortly after taking office, I directed Leon Panetta, the
director of the CIA, to make the killing or capture of bin Laden the top priority of our war
against al Qaeda, even as we continued our broader efforts to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat
his network.
Then, last August, after years of painstaking work by our intelligence community, I was
briefed on a possible lead to bin Laden. It was far from certain, and it took many months to
run this thread to ground. I met repeatedly with my national security team as we developed
more information about the possibility that we had located bin Laden hiding within a
compound deep inside of Pakistan. And finally, last week, I determined that we had enough
intelligence to take action, and authorized an operation to get Osama bin Laden and bring him
to justice.
Today, at my direction, the United States launched a targeted operation against that
compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. A small team of Americans carried out the operation with
extraordinary courage and capability. No Americans were harmed. They took care to avoid
civilian casualties. After a firefight, they killed Osama bin Laden and took custody of his body.
For over two decades, bin Laden has been al Qaeda’s leader and symbol, and has continued to
plot attacks against our country and our friends and allies. The death of bin Laden marks the
most significant achievement to date in our nation’s effort to defeat al Qaeda.
Yet his death does not mark the end of our effort. There’s no doubt that al Qaeda will continue
to pursue attacks against us. We must –- and we will -- remain vigilant at home and abroad.
As we do, we must also reaffirm that the United States is not –- and never will be -– at war
with Islam. I’ve made clear, just as President Bush did shortly after 9/11, that our war is not
against Islam. Bin Laden was not a Muslim leader; he was a mass murderer of Muslims.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Indeed, al Qaeda has slaughtered scores of Muslims in many countries, including our own. So
his demise should be welcomed by all who believe in peace and human dignity.
Over the years, I’ve repeatedly made clear that we would take action within Pakistan if we
knew where bin Laden was. That is what we’ve done. But it’s important to note that our
counterterrorism cooperation with Pakistan helped lead us to bin Laden and the compound
where he was hiding. Indeed, bin Laden had declared war against Pakistan as well, and
ordered attacks against the Pakistani people.
Tonight, I called President Zardari, and my team has also spoken with their Pakistani
counterparts. They agree that this is a good and historic day for both of our nations. And
going forward, it is essential that Pakistan continue to join us in the fight against al Qaeda and
its affiliates.
The American people did not choose this fight. It came to our shores, and started with the
senseless slaughter of our citizens. After nearly 10 years of service, struggle, and sacrifice, we
know well the costs of war. These efforts weigh on me every time I, as Commander-in-Chief,
have to sign a letter to a family that has lost a loved one, or look into the eyes of a service
member who’s been gravely wounded.
So Americans understand the costs of war. Yet as a country, we will never tolerate our
security being threatened, nor stand idly by when our people have been killed. We will be
relentless in defense of our citizens and our friends and allies. We will be true to the values
that make us who we are. And on nights like this one, we can say to those families who have
lost loved ones to al Qaeda’s terror: Justice has been done.
Tonight, we give thanks to the countless intelligence and counterterrorism professionals
who’ve worked tirelessly to achieve this outcome. The American people do not see their work,
nor know their names. But tonight, they feel the satisfaction of their work and the result of
their pursuit of justice.
We give thanks for the men who carried out this operation, for they exemplify the
professionalism, patriotism, and unparalleled courage of those who serve our country. And
they are part of a generation that has borne the heaviest share of the burden since that
September day.
Finally, let me say to the families who lost loved ones on 9/11 that we have never forgotten
your loss, nor wavered in our commitment to see that we do whatever it takes to prevent
another attack on our shores.
And tonight, let us think back to the sense of unity that prevailed on 9/11. I know that it has,
at times, frayed. Yet today’s achievement is a testament to the greatness of our country and
the determination of the American people.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The cause of securing our country is not complete. But tonight, we are once again reminded
that America can do whatever we set our mind to. That is the story of our history, whether it’s
the pursuit of prosperity for our people, or the struggle for equality for all our citizens; our
commitment to stand up for our values abroad, and our sacrifices to make the world a safer
place.
Let us remember that we can do these things not just because of wealth or power, but
because of who we are: one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
Thank you.
May God bless you.
And may God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329833" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Oval_Office_BP.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Oval%20Office%20BP.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Oval Office Address on BP Oil Spill Disaster

Delivered 15 June 2010, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good evening. As we speak, our nation faces a multitude of challenges. At home, our top priority is to
recover and rebuild from a recession that has touched the lives of nearly every American. Abroad, our
brave men and women in uniform are taking the fight to al Qaeda wherever it exists. And tonight, I’ve
returned from a trip to the Gulf Coast to speak with you about the battle we’re waging against an oil spill that
is assaulting our shores and our citizens.
On April 20th, an explosion ripped through BP Deepwater Horizon drilling rig, about 40 miles off the coast of
Louisiana. Eleven workers lost their lives. Seventeen others were injured. And soon, nearly a mile beneath
the surface of the ocean, oil began spewing into the water.
Because there has never been a leak this size at this depth, stopping it has tested the limits of human
technology. That’s why just after the rig sank, I assembled a team of our nation’s best scientists and
engineers to tackle this challenge ­­ a team led by Dr. Steven Chu, a Nobel Prize­winning physicist and our
nation’s Secretary of Energy. Scientists at our national labs and experts from academia and other oil
companies have also provided ideas and advice.
As a result of these efforts, we’ve directed BP to mobilize additional equipment and technology. And in the
coming weeks and days, these efforts should capture up to 90 percent of the oil leaking out of the well. This
is until the company finishes drilling a relief well later in the summer that’s expected to stop the leak
completely.
Already, this oil spill is the worst environmental disaster America has ever faced. And unlike an earthquake
or a hurricane, it’s not a single event that does its damage in a matter of minutes or days. The millions of
gallons of oil that have spilled into the Gulf of Mexico are more like an epidemic, one that we will be fighting
for months and even years.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com © Copyright 2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But make no mistake: We will fight this spill with everything we’ve got for as long as it takes. We will make
BP pay for the damage their company has caused. And we will do whatever’s necessary to help the Gulf
Coast and its people recover from this tragedy.
Tonight I’d like to lay out for you what our battle plan is going forward: what we’re doing to clean up the oil,
what we’re doing to help our neighbors in the Gulf, and what we’re doing to make sure that a catastrophe
like this never happens again.
First, the cleanup. From the very beginning of this crisis, the federal government has been in charge of the
largest environmental cleanup effort in our nation’s history ­­ an effort led by Admiral Thad Allen, who has
almost 40 years of experience responding to disasters. We now have nearly 30,000 personnel who are
working across four states to contain and clean up the oil. Thousands of ships and other vessels are
responding in the Gulf. And I’ve authorized the deployment of over 17,000 National Guard members along
the coast. These servicemen and women are ready to help stop the oil from coming ashore, they’re ready
to help clean the beaches, train response workers, or even help with processing claims ­­ and I urge the
governors in the affected states to activate these troops as soon as possible.
Because of our efforts, millions of gallons of oil have already been removed from the water through burning,
skimming and other collection methods. Over five and a half million feet of boom has been laid across the
water to block and absorb the approaching oil. We’ve approved the construction of new barrier islands in
Louisiana to try to stop the oil before it reaches the shore, and we’re working with Alabama, Mississippi and
Florida to implement creative approaches to their unique coastlines.
As the cleanup continues, we will offer whatever additional resources and assistance our coastal states may
need. Now, a mobilization of this speed and magnitude will never be perfect, and new challenges will
always arise. I saw and heard evidence of that during this trip. So if something isn’t working, we want to
hear about it. If there are problems in the operation, we will fix them.
But we have to recognize that despite our best efforts, oil has already caused damage to our coastline and
its wildlife. And sadly, no matter how effective our response is, there will be more oil and more damage
before this siege is done. That’s why the second thing we’re focused on is the recovery and restoration of
the Gulf Coast.
You know, for generations, men and women who call this region home have made their living from the
water. That living is now in jeopardy. I’ve talked to shrimpers and fishermen who don’t know how they’re
going to support their families this year. I’ve seen empty docks and restaurants with fewer customers ­­
even in areas where the beaches are not yet affected. I’ve talked to owners of shops and hotels who
wonder when the tourists might start coming back. The sadness and the anger they feel is not just about
the money they’ve lost. It’s about a wrenching anxiety that their way of life may be lost.
I refuse to let that happen. Tomorrow, I will meet with the chairman of BP and inform him that he is to set
aside whatever resources are required to compensate the workers and business owners who have been
harmed as a result of his company’s recklessness. And this fund will not be controlled by BP. In order to
ensure that all legitimate claims are paid out in a fair and timely manner, the account must and will be
administered by an independent third party.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com © Copyright 2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Beyond compensating the people of the Gulf in the short term, it’s also clear we need a long­term plan to
restore the unique beauty and bounty of this region. The oil spill represents just the latest blow to a place
that’s already suffered multiple economic disasters and decades of environmental degradation that has led
to disappearing wetlands and habitats. And the region still hasn’t recovered from Hurricanes Katrina and
Rita. That’s why we must make a commitment to the Gulf Coast that goes beyond responding to the crisis
of the moment.
I make that commitment tonight. Earlier, I asked Ray Mabus, the Secretary of the Navy, who is also a
former governor of Mississippi and a son of the Gulf Coast, to develop a long­term Gulf Coast Restoration
Plan as soon as possible. The plan will be designed by states, local communities, tribes, fishermen,
businesses, conservationists and other Gulf residents. And BP will pay for the impact this spill has had on
the region.
The third part of our response plan is the steps we’re taking to ensure that a disaster like this does not
happen again. A few months ago, I approved a proposal to consider new, limited offshore drilling under the
assurance that it would be absolutely safe ­­ that the proper technology would be in place and the necessary
precautions would be taken.
That obviously was not the case in the Deepwater Horizon rig, and I want to know why. The American
people deserve to know why. The families I met with last week who lost their loved ones in the explosion ­­
these families deserve to know why. And so I’ve established a National Commission to understand the
causes of this disaster and offer recommendations on what additional safety and environmental standards
we need to put in place. Already, I’ve issued a six­month moratorium on deepwater drilling. I know this
creates difficulty for the people who work on these rigs, but for the sake of their safety, and for the sake of
the entire region, we need to know the facts before we allow deepwater drilling to continue. And while I urge
the Commission to complete its work as quickly as possible, I expect them to do that work thoroughly and
impartially.
One place we’ve already begun to take action is at the agency in charge of regulating drilling and issuing
permits, known as the Minerals Management Service. Over the last decade, this agency has become
emblematic of a failed philosophy that views all regulation with hostility ­­ a philosophy that says
corporations should be allowed to play by their own rules and police themselves. At this agency, industry
insiders were put in charge of industry oversight. Oil companies showered regulators with gifts and favors,
and were essentially allowed to conduct their own safety inspections and write their own regulations.
When Ken Salazar became my Secretary of the Interior, one of his very first acts was to clean up the worst
of the corruption at this agency. But it’s now clear that the problem there ran much deeper, and the pace of
reform was just too slow. And so Secretary Salazar and I are bringing in new leadership at the agency ­­
Michael Bromwich, who was a tough federal prosecutor and Inspector General. And his charge over the
next few months is to build an organization that acts as the oil industry’s watchdog ­­ not its partner.
So one of the lessons we’ve learned from this spill is that we need better regulations, better safety
standards, and better enforcement when it comes to offshore drilling. But a larger lesson is that no matter
how much we improve our regulation of the industry, drilling for oil these days entails greater risk. After all,
oil is a finite resource. We consume more than 20 percent of the world’s oil, but have less than 2 percent of
the world’s oil reserves. And that’s part of the reason oil companies are drilling a mile beneath the surface
of the ocean ­­ because we’re running out of places to drill on land and in shallow water.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com © Copyright 2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
For decades, we have known the days of cheap and easily accessible oil were numbered. For decades,
we’ve talked and talked about the need to end America’s century­long addiction to fossil fuels. And for
decades, we have failed to act with the sense of urgency that this challenge requires. Time and again, the
path forward has been blocked ­­ not only by oil industry lobbyists, but also by a lack of political courage and
candor.
The consequences of our inaction are now in plain sight. Countries like China are investing in clean energy
jobs and industries that should be right here in America. Each day, we send nearly $1 billion of our wealth
to foreign countries for their oil. And today, as we look to the Gulf, we see an entire way of life being
threatened by a menacing cloud of black crude.
We cannot consign our children to this future. The tragedy unfolding on our coast is the most painful and
powerful reminder yet that the time to embrace a clean energy future is now. Now is the moment for this
generation to embark on a national mission to unleash America’s innovation and seize control of our own
destiny.
This is not some distant vision for America. The transition away from fossil fuels is going to take some time,
but over the last year and a half, we’ve already taken unprecedented action to jumpstart the clean energy
industry. As we speak, old factories are reopening to produce wind turbines, people are going back to work
installing energy­efficient windows, and small businesses are making solar panels. Consumers are buying
more efficient cars and trucks, and families are making their homes more energy­efficient. Scientists and
researchers are discovering clean energy technologies that someday will lead to entire new industries.
Each of us has a part to play in a new future that will benefit all of us. As we recover from this recession,
the transition to clean energy has the potential to grow our economy and create millions of jobs ­­ but only if
we accelerate that transition. Only if we seize the moment. And only if we rally together and act as one
nation ­­ workers and entrepreneurs; scientists and citizens; the public and private sectors.
When I was a candidate for this office, I laid out a set of principles that would move our country towards
energy independence. Last year, the House of Representatives acted on these principles by passing a
strong and comprehensive energy and climate bill ­­ a bill that finally makes clean energy the profitable kind
of energy for America’s businesses.
Now, there are costs associated with this transition. And there are some who believe that we can’t afford
those costs right now. I say we can’t afford not to change how we produce and use energy ­­because the
long­term costs to our economy, our national security, and our environment are far greater.
So I’m happy to look at other ideas and approaches from either party ­­ as long they seriously tackle our
addiction to fossil fuels. Some have suggested raising efficiency standards in our buildings like we did in
our cars and trucks. Some believe we should set standards to ensure that more of our electricity comes
from wind and solar power. Others wonder why the energy industry only spends a fraction of what the high­
tech industry does on research and development ­­ and want to rapidly boost our investments in such
research and development.
All of these approaches have merit, and deserve a fair hearing in the months ahead. But the one approach I
will not accept is inaction. The one answer I will not settle for is the idea that this challenge is somehow too
big and too difficult to meet.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com © Copyright 2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
You know, the same thing was said about our ability to produce enough planes and tanks in World War II.
The same thing was said about our ability to harness the science and technology to land a man safely on
the surface of the moon. And yet, time and again, we have refused to settle for the paltry limits of
conventional wisdom. Instead, what has defined us as a nation since our founding is the capacity to shape
our destiny ­­ our determination to fight for the America we want for our children. Even if we’re unsure
exactly what that looks like. Even if we don’t yet know precisely how we’re going to get there. We know
we’ll get there.
It’s a faith in the future that sustains us as a people. It is that same faith that sustains our neighbors in the
Gulf right now.
Each year, at the beginning of shrimping season, the region’s fishermen take part in a tradition that was
brought to America long ago by fishing immigrants from Europe. It’s called “The Blessing of the Fleet,” and
today it’s a celebration where clergy from different religions gather to say a prayer for the safety and
success of the men and women who will soon head out to sea ­­ some for weeks at a time. The ceremony
goes on in good times and in bad. It took place after Katrina, and it took place a few weeks ago ­­ at the
beginning of the most difficult season these fishermen have ever faced.
And still, they came and they prayed. For as a priest and former fisherman once said of the tradition, “The
blessing is not that God has promised to remove all obstacles and dangers. The blessing is that He is with
us always,” a blessing that’s granted “even in the midst of the storm.”
The oil spill is not the last crisis America will face. This nation has known hard times before and we will
surely know them again. What sees us through ­­ what has always seen us through ­­ is our strength, our
resilience, and our unyielding faith that something better awaits us if we summon the courage to reach for it.
Tonight, we pray for that courage. We pray for the people of the Gulf. And we pray that a hand may guide
us through the storm towards a brighter day. Thank you, God bless you, and may God bless the United
States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com © Copyright 2010. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329831" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Pensacola_Military_Personnel.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Pensacola%20Military%20Personnel.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to Military Personnel in Pensacola, Florida
delivered 15 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Well, hello, Pensacola! It is great to be here. I want everybody, first of all, to give a big
round of applause to Chief Elison Talabong for leading us in the pledge and singing our
National Anthem -- to Lieutenant Commander Randy Ekstrom for the wonderful invocation.
I want to thank your outstanding local leaders for welcoming me here today, including
Captains Chris Plummer, Mike Price and Brad Martin. Give them a big round of applause. And
your great senior enlisted leaders, including Master Chief Mike Dollen, give them a big round
of applause.
I want to thank all the spouses and families who are joining us here today. You hold our
military families together, so we honor your service as well.
It is great to be here in Pensacola -- America’s oldest naval air station, “the cradle of naval
aviation.” We’ve got Navy -- all the students of the Naval Air Technical Training Center.
We’ve got Training Wing Six, maybe a few Blue Angels. We’ve got the United States Marines
in the house -- maybe a few Air Force and Army, too.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I don’t know how many could be here, because they’re out there on the water right now,
responding to the spill -- but I want to thank all the folks at Coast Guard Station Pensacola for
their outstanding work. And I know somebody who is especially proud of them, and that’s the
former Commandant of the Coast Guard who postponed his retirement to answer his country’s
call once more and coordinate the federal response effort to the spill -- and that’s Admiral
Thad Allen. Please give him a big round of applause.
Now, I was just down at the Pensacola Beach Gulf Pier, at the Fish Sandwich Snack Bar. Now,
I don’t know if any of you ever checked it out. It’s a nice spot. We were there with some of
Florida’s state and local leaders to discuss the situation here. I want to acknowledge the hard
work that’s being done by the governor of Florida, Charlie Crist; Florida’s Chief Financial
Officer, Alex Sink; Senators Bill Nelson, George LeMieux, representatives who are here today - we got Jeff Miller and Corrine Brown and Ted Deutch. Please give them a big round of
applause.
We’ve got Escambia County Commissioner Grover Robinson and Pensacola Mayor Mike
Wiggins. Thank you very much for your outstanding efforts.
I know all of you join me in thanking these leaders and their communities -- because they’re
your neighbors -- for the incredible support that they give all the men and women and your
families here in Pensacola. So we’re grateful to you.
But this is my fourth visit to the Gulf Coast since the start of this spill. Yesterday, I was over
in Gulfport, Mississippi; Theodore, Alabama; and now Pensacola -- assessing the situation,
reviewing the response, seeing what needs to be done better and faster, and talking with folks
-- whether fishermen or small business people and their families -- who are seeing their lives
turned upside-down by this disaster.
Here in Pensacola, the beautiful beaches are still open. The sand is white and the water is
blue. So folks who are looking for a good vacation, they can still come down to Pensacola.
People need to know that Pensacola is still open for business. But that doesn’t mean that
people aren’t angry. That doesn’t mean that people aren’t scared. That doesn’t mean that
people have concerns about the future -- we all have those concerns. And people have every
right to be angry.
Those plumes of oil are off the coast. The fishing waters are closed. Tar balls have been
coming ashore. And everybody is bracing for more.
So I’ll say today what I’ve been saying up and down the Coast over the last couple of days
and over the last month. Yes, this is an unprecedented environmental disaster -- it’s the
worst in our nation’s history. But we’re going to continue to meet it with an unprecedented
federal response and recovery effort -- the largest in our nation’s history. This is an assault
on our shores, and we’re going to fight back with everything we’ve got.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that includes mobilizing the resources of the greatest military in the world. Here at Naval
Air Station Pensacola, you’ve been one of the major staging areas. You’ve helped to support
the response effort. And I thank you for that, and I know the people of Pensacola thank you
for that. And all along the Gulf coast, our men and women in uniform -- active, Guard, and
Reserve -- from across the country are stepping up and helping out.
They’re soldiers on the beaches putting out sandbags and building barriers and cleaning up
the oil, and helping people process their claims for compensation from BP. They’re sailors and
Marines offering their ships and their skimmers and their helicopters and miles of boom.
They’re airmen overhead, flying in equipment and spraying dispersant. And, of course, there
are Coast Guardsmen and women on the cutters, in the air, working around the clock.
And when I say this is the largest response of its kind in American history, I mean it. We’ve
got more than 5,000 vessels on site -- skimmers, tugs, barges, dozens of aircraft. More than
27,000 personnel are on the scene, fighting this every day, putting out millions of feet of
boom and cleaning the shores.
All told, we’ve authorized the deployment of 17,500 National Guardsmen to respond to this
crisis. So far, only about 1,600 have been activated. That leaves a lot of Guardsmen ready to
help. And if our governors call on them, I know they’ll be ready, because they’re always
ready.
So I want the people of this region to know that my administration is going to do whatever it
takes, for as long as it takes, to deal with this disaster. That includes the additional actions I
announced yesterday to make sure that seafood from the Gulf is safe to eat. It includes steps
we’ve taken to protect the safety of workers involved in the cleanup. It includes the new
command structure I announced this morning to make sure states and local communities like
Pensacola have the autonomy and the resources that they need to go forward.
And that includes something else -- making sure BP pays for the damages that it has caused - use this isn’t just an environmental disaster. For many families and communities, it’s an
economic disaster. Here in Pensacola and the Panhandle, tourism is everything. And when
the tourists stay home, it ripples out and hits folks across these communities -- the charter
boats, the hotels, the restaurants, the roadside stores, the shops, the suppliers, the dive
shops. And if your inland waters are contaminated -- if the bays and bayous are
contaminated -- it could be devastating, changing the way of life down here for years to
come.
I’m going to speak to the nation tonight about this. But let me say to the people of Pensacola
and the Gulf Coast: I am with you, my administration is with you for the long haul to make
sure BP pays for the damage that it has done and to make sure that you are getting the help
you need to protect this beautiful coast and to rehabilitate the damaged areas, to revitalize
this region, and to make sure that nothing like this happens ever again. That is a
commitment I am making to the people of Florida and people all across this Gulf.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, that spirit -- that spirit of resolve and determination and resilience, that’s the same spirit
we see in all of you, the men and women in uniform, the spirit we’ll need to meet other
challenges of our time. Obviously the news has been dominated lately by the oil spill, but our
nation is at war and all of you have stepped forward. You volunteered. You took an oath.
You stood tall and you said, “I will serve.”
And here at Pensacola, you’re carrying on the proud tradition of naval aviation that spans a
century. Here at the Barrancas National Cemetery, our heroes from yesterday’s wars are still
inspiring us. And like generations before you, you’re no strangers to sacrifice. Our prayers
are with the families and friends of the crews that you lost in that training exercise two
months ago. Today, we send out our thoughts and prayers to all the folks from Pensacola on
the frontlines at this very moment, including Iraq and Afghanistan. They are making us
incredibly proud.
And so are you. As naval aviators and naval flight officers, you’ll soon earn your “Wings of
Gold.” Many of you will prove yourselves as indispensable air crews -- the mechanics, the
engineers, the electricians, the maintenance crews -- people’s lives depending on what you do
each and every day.
I know you’re looking ahead to your first operational tours -- to join the fleet and your
squadrons. And within weeks, some of you may find yourselves serving on a carrier deck in
the Arabian Sea or working a busy flight line in Afghanistan. And as you begin your careers,
as you look ahead to a life of service, I want you to know -- on behalf of the American people
-- that your nation thanks you, your nation appreciates you, your nation will stand with you
every step of the way.
And as your Commander-in-Chief, I want you to know something: I will not hesitate to use
force to protect the American people or our vital interests. But I will also never risk your lives
unless it’s absolutely necessary. And if it is necessary, we are going to back you up to the hilt
with the strategy and the clear mission and the equipment and the support that you need to
get the job done right. That’s my promise to every one of you, every man and woman who
wears America’s uniform.
That includes the right strategy in Iraq, where we’re partnering with the Iraqi people for their
long-term security and prosperity. And thanks to the honor and the heroism of our troops, we
are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq this summer -- on schedule.
As we end the war in Iraq, we’re pressing forward in Afghanistan. We’re working to break the
momentum of the Taliban insurgency and train Afghan security forces, strengthen the
capacity of the Afghan government and protect the Afghan people.
We will disrupt and dismantle and ultimately defeat al Qaeda and its terrorist affiliates. And
we will support the aspirations of people around the world as they seek progress and
opportunity and prosperity, because that’s what we do -- as Americans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
As you meet the missions we ask of you, we’re going to make sure you’re trained and
equipped to succeed. That’s why we halted reductions in the Navy. That’s why we increased
the size of the Marine Corps. That’s why we’re investing in the capabilities and technologies of
tomorrow. And as we come up on the 100th anniversary of naval aviation next year, we’re
committed to the next generation of aircraft. We’re going to keep you the best-trained, bestled, best-equipped military that the world has ever known.
Some of that is about technology. But the most important thing in our military is our people - it’s all of you. And as you advance through the ranks and start families of your own, we
want to be there for your loved ones, too. This is one of the defining missions of the First
Lady, Michelle Obama. On Sunday, she visited the Navy-Marine Corps team and their families
at Camp Pendleton. And they had a tough week, because five outstanding Marines from
Pendleton gave their lives last week in Afghanistan. During her visit, Michelle had a message
for their families and for all military families: America is going to keep faith with you, too.
When a loved one goes to war, that family goes to war. That’s why we’re working to improve
family readiness and increase pay and benefits, working to give you more time between
deployments, increasing support to help spouses and families deal with the stresses and the
separation of war.
But this can’t be the work of government alone. As Michelle has been saying, 1 percent of
Americans may be fighting our wars, but 100 percent of Americans need to be supporting our
men and women and their families in uniform. You guys shouldn’t be carrying the entire
burden. That’s why Michelle is challenging every sector of American society to support our
military families -- not just now, with our nation at war, but at every stage of your lives.
So we’re improving care for our wounded warriors, especially those with post-traumatic stress
and traumatic brain injury. We’re funding the Post-9/11 GI Bill -- to give you and your
families the chance to pursue your dreams. We’ve made a historic commitment to our
veterans with one of the largest percentage increases to the VA budget in the past 30 years.
Those are concrete actions we’ve taken to meet the commitment I have to you and that the
American people have to you. Because you’ve always taken care of America, America needs
to take care of you. And that’s my main message here today. We’re all in this together. In
our country, there isn’t a “military world” and a “civilian world.” We’re all Americans. There’s
not Democrats and Republicans, when you take the long view -- we’re all Americans. We all
rise and fall together. And we all need to do our part to get through the challenges we face as
a people.
So, yes, we’re emerging from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. Too
many folks are still out of work here in Florida and around the country. Yes, we’re a nation at
war with adversaries who will stop at nothing to strike our homeland and would kill innocent
people, women and children, with no compunction.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Yes, we’re now battling the worst economic -- environmental disaster in American history.
Any one of these challenges alone would test our country. Confronting them all at once might
overwhelm a lesser nation.
But look around you. Look at the person standing next to you. You look around and you see
the strength and resilience that will carry us through.
You look at this installation and the forts that have stood watch over this bay and its people
for centuries -- through the rise and fall of empires, through a terrible Civil War -- and as a
nation healed itself, we became a beacon to the world. We’ve endured.
All of these men and women in uniform, all of you represent the same spirit of service and
sacrifice as those who’ve gone before -- who defeated fascism, defeated tyranny, prevailed in
a long Cold War over communism. And now, in our time, you’ve toppled regimes based on
terror and dictatorship, and you’ve given new hope to millions of people. You’ve earned your
place among the greatest of generations.
And look at the people of this city and this region -- fishermen who’ve made their lives on the
water, families who’ve lived here for generations, hardworking folks who’ve had to endure
more than their share -- tough economic times and hurricanes and storms that forced so
many families and communities to start over from scratch. But they never gave up. They
started over, and they rebuilt stronger than before.
As Americans, we don’t quit. We keep coming. None of these challenges we’re facing are
going to be easy. None of them are going to be quick, but make no mistake, the United
States of America has gone through tough times before and we always come out stronger.
And we will do so again.
And this city and this region will recover. It will thrive again. And America’s military will
prevail in the mission to keep our country safe. And our nation will endure from these trials
stronger than before. That is the history of the United States of America. That is the legacy
of our Armed Forces. And I promise you that we will not falter.
Past generations have passed on this precious gift to us, and future generations are
depending on us. And as I look out on each and every one of your faces, I’m absolutely
confident that you will meet that challenge.
God bless you and God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329767" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Prayer_Breakfast_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Prayer%20Breakfast%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Prayer Breakfast Speech

Delivered 4 February 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Thank you very much. Please be seated.
Thank you so much. Heads of state, Cabinet members, my outstanding Vice President,
members of Congress, religious leaders, distinguished guests, Admiral Mullen -- it's good to
see all of you. Let me begin by acknowledging the co-chairs of this breakfast, Senators
Isakson and Klobuchar, who embody the sense of fellowship at the heart of this gathering.
They're two of my favorite senators. Let me also acknowledge the director of my faith-based
office, Joshua DuBois, who is here. Where's Joshua? He's out there somewhere. He's doing
great work.
I want to commend Secretary Hillary Clinton on her outstanding remarks, and her outstanding
leadership at the State Department. She's doing good every day. I'm especially pleased to see
my dear friend, Prime Minister Zapatero, and I want him to relay America's greetings to the
people of Spain. And Johnny, you are right, I'm deeply blessed, and I thank God every day for
being married to Michelle Obama.
I'm privileged to join you once again, as my predecessors have for over half a century. Like
them, I come here to speak about the ways my faith informs who I am -- as a President, and
as a person. But I'm also here for the same reason that all of you are, for we all share a
recognition -- one as old as time -- that a willingness to believe, an openness to grace, a
commitment to prayer can bring sustenance to our lives.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
There is, of course, a need for prayer even in times of joy and peace and prosperity. Perhaps
especially in such times prayer is needed -- to guard against pride and to guard against
complacency. But rightly or wrongly, most of us are inclined to seek out the divine not in the
moment when the Lord makes His face shine upon us, but in moments when God's grace can
seem farthest away.
Last month, God's grace, God's mercy, seemed far away from our neighbors in Haiti. And yet I
believe that grace was not absent in the midst of tragedy. It was heard in prayers and hymns
that broke the silence of an earthquake's wake. It was witnessed among parishioners of
churches that stood no more, a roadside congregation, holding bibles in their laps. It was felt
in the presence of relief workers and medics; translators; servicemen and women, bringing
water and food and aid to the injured.
One such translator was an American of Haitian descent, representative of the extraordinary
work that our men and women in uniform do all around the world -- Navy Corpsman Christian
[sic] Brossard. And lying on a gurney aboard the USNS Comfort, a woman asked Christopher:
"Where do you come from? What country? After my operation," she said, "I will pray for that
country." And in Creole, Corpsman Brossard responded, "Etazini." The United States of
America.
God's grace, and the compassion and decency of the American people is expressed through
the men and women like Corpsman Brossard. It's expressed through the efforts of our Armed
Forces, through the efforts of our entire government, through similar efforts from Spain and
other countries around the world. It's also, as Secretary Clinton said, expressed through
multiple faith-based efforts. By evangelicals at World Relief. By the American Jewish World
Service. By Hindu temples, and mainline Protestants, Catholic Relief Services, African
American churches, the United Sikhs. By Americans of every faith, and no faith, uniting
around a common purpose, a higher purpose.
It's inspiring. This is what we do, as Americans, in times of trouble. We unite, recognizing that
such crises call on all of us to act, recognizing that there but for the grace of God go I,
recognizing that life's most sacred responsibility -- one affirmed, as Hillary said, by all of the
world's great religions -- is to sacrifice something of ourselves for a person in need.
Sadly, though, that spirit is too often absent when tackling the long-term, but no less
profound issues facing our country and the world. Too often, that spirit is missing without the
spectacular tragedy, the 9/11 or the Katrina, the earthquake or the tsunami, that can shake
us out of complacency. We become numb to the day-to-day crises, the slow-moving tragedies
of children without food and men without shelter and families without health care. We become
absorbed with our abstract arguments, our ideological disputes, our contests for power. And in
this Tower of Babel, we lose the sound of God's voice.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, for those of us here in Washington, let's acknowledge that democracy has always been
messy. Let's not be overly nostalgic. Divisions are hardly new in this country. Arguments
about the proper role of government, the relationship between liberty and equality, our
obligations to our fellow citizens -- these things have been with us since our founding. And I'm
profoundly mindful that a loyal opposition, a vigorous back and forth, a skepticism of power,
all of that is what makes our democracy work.
And we've seen actually some improvement in some circumstances. We haven't seen any
canings on the floor of the Senate any time recently. So we shouldn't over-romanticize the
past. But there is a sense that something is different now; that something is broken; that
those of us in Washington are not serving the people as well as we should. At times, it seems
like we're unable to listen to one another; to have at once a serious and civil debate. And this
erosion of civility in the public square sows division and distrust among our citizens. It poisons
the well of public opinion. It leaves each side little room to negotiate with the other. It makes
politics an all-or-nothing sport, where one side is either always right or always wrong when, in
reality, neither side has a monopoly on truth. And then we lose sight of the children without
food and the men without shelter and the families without health care.
Empowered by faith, consistently, prayerfully, we need to find our way back to civility. That
begins with stepping out of our comfort zones in an effort to bridge divisions. We see that in
many conservative pastors who are helping lead the way to fix our broken immigration
system. It's not what would be expected from them, and yet they recognize, in those
immigrant families, the face of God. We see that in the evangelical leaders who are rallying
their congregations to protect our planet. We see it in the increasing recognition among
progressives that government can't solve all of our problems, and that talking about values
like responsible fatherhood and healthy marriage are integral to any anti-poverty agenda.
Stretching out of our dogmas, our prescribed roles along the political spectrum, that can help
us regain a sense of civility.
Civility also requires relearning how to disagree without being disagreeable; understanding, as
President [Kennedy] said, that "civility is not a sign of weakness." Now, I am the first to
confess I am not always right. Michelle will testify to that. But surely you can question my
policies without questioning my faith, or, for that matter, my citizenship.
Challenging each other's ideas can renew our democracy. But when we challenge each other's
motives, it becomes harder to see what we hold in common. We forget that we share at some
deep level the same dreams -- even when we don't share the same plans on how to fulfill
them.
We may disagree about the best way to reform our health care system, but surely we can
agree that no one ought to go broke when they get sick in the richest nation on Earth. We can
take different approaches to ending inequality, but surely we can agree on the need to lift our
children out of ignorance; to lift our neighbors from poverty.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We may disagree about gay marriage, but surely we can agree that it is unconscionable to
target gays and lesbians for who they are -- whether it's here in the United States or, as
Hillary mentioned, more extremely in odious laws that are being proposed most recently in
Uganda.
Surely we can agree to find common ground when possible, parting ways when necessary. But
in doing so, let us be guided by our faith, and by prayer. For while prayer can buck us up
when we are down, keep us calm in a storm; while prayer can stiffen our spines to surmount
an obstacle -- and I assure you I'm praying a lot these days -- prayer can also do something
else. It can touch our hearts with humility. It can fill us with a spirit of brotherhood. It can
remind us that each of us are children of a awesome and loving God.
Through faith, but not through faith alone, we can unite people to serve the common
good. And that's why my Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships has been
working so hard since I announced it here last year. We've slashed red tape and built effective
partnerships on a range of uses, from promoting fatherhood here at home to spearheading
interfaith cooperation abroad. And through that office we've turned the faith-based initiative
around to find common ground among people of all beliefs, allowing them to make an impact
in a way that's civil and respectful of difference and focused on what matters most.
It is this spirit of civility that we are called to take up when we leave here today. That's what
I'm praying for. I know in difficult times like these -- when people are frustrated, when
pundits start shouting and politicians start calling each other names -- it can seem like a
return to civility is not possible, like the very idea is a relic of some bygone era. The word
itself seems quaint -- civility.
But let us remember those who came before; those who believed in the brotherhood of man
even when such a faith was tested. Remember Dr. Martin Luther King. Not long after an
explosion ripped through his front porch, his wife and infant daughter inside, he rose to that
pulpit in Montgomery and said, "Love is the only force capable of transforming an enemy into
a friend."
In the eyes of those who denied his humanity, he saw the face of God.
Remember Abraham Lincoln. On the eve of the Civil War, with states seceding and forces
gathering, with a nation divided half slave and half free, he rose to deliver his first Inaugural
and said, "We are not enemies, but friends…Though passion may have strained, it must not
break our bonds of affection."
Even in the eyes of confederate soldiers, he saw the face of God.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Remember William Wilberforce, whose Christian faith led him to seek slavery's abolition in
Britain; he was vilified, derided, attacked; but he called for "lessening prejudices [and]
conciliating good-will, and thereby making way for the less obstructed progress of truth."
In the eyes of those who sought to silence a nation's conscience, he saw the face of God.
Yes, there are crimes of conscience that call us to action. Yes, there are causes that move our
hearts and offenses that stir our souls. But progress doesn't come when we demonize
opponents. It's not born in righteous spite. Progress comes when we open our hearts, when
we extend our hands, when we recognize our common humanity. Progress comes when we
look into the eyes of another and see the face of God. That we might do so -- that we will do
so all the time, not just some of the time -- is my fervent prayer for our nation and the world.
Thank you, God bless you, and God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329883" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Prayer_Breakfast_2011.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Prayer%20Breakfast%202011.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at the 59th Prayer Breakfast
delivered 3 February 2011, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much. To the co-chairs, Jeff and Ann; to all the members of Congress who are
here, the distinguished guests who’ve traveled so far to be here this morning; to Randall for
your wonderful stories and powerful prayer; to all who are here providing testimony, thank
you so much for having me and Michelle here. We are blessed to be here.
I want to begin by just saying a word to Mark Kelly, who’s here. We have been praying for
Mark’s wife, Gabby Giffords, for many days now. But I want Gabby and Mark and their entire
family to know that we are with them for the long haul, and God is with them for the long
haul.
And even as we pray for Gabby in the aftermath of a tragedy here at home, we're also mindful
of the violence that we're now seeing in the Middle East, and we pray that the violence in
Egypt will end and that the rights and aspirations of the Egyptian people will be realized and
that a better day will dawn over Egypt and throughout the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
For almost 60 years, going back to President Eisenhower, this gathering has been attended by
our President. It’s a tradition that I'm proud to uphold not only as a fellow believer but as an
elected leader whose entry into public service was actually through the church. This may
come as a surprise, for as some of you know, I did not come from a particularly religious
family. My father, who I barely knew -- I only met once for a month in my entire life -- was
said to be a non-believer throughout his life.
My mother, whose parents were Baptist and Methodist, grew up with a certain skepticism
about organized religion, and she usually only took me to church on Easter and Christmas -sometimes. And yet my mother was also one of the most spiritual people that I ever knew.
She was somebody who was instinctively guided by the Golden Rule and who nagged me
constantly about the homespun values of her Kansas upbringing, values like honesty and hard
work and kindness and fair play.
And it’s because of her that I came to understand the equal worth of all men and all women,
and the imperatives of an ethical life and the necessity to act on your beliefs. And it’s
because of her example and guidance that despite the absence of a formal religious
upbringing my earliest inspirations for a life of service ended up being the faith leaders of the
Civil Rights Movement.
There was, of course, Martin Luther King and the Baptist leaders, the ways in which they
helped those who had been subjugated to make a way out of no way, and transform a nation
through the force of love. But there were also Catholic leaders like Father Theodore
Heshburg, and Jewish leaders like Rabbi Abraham Joshua Heschel, Muslim leaders and Hindu
leaders. Their call to fix what was broken in our world, a call rooted in faith, is what led me
just a few years out of college to sign up as a community organizer for a group of churches on
the Southside of Chicago. And it was through that experience working with pastors and
laypeople trying to heal the wounds of hurting neighborhoods that I came to know Jesus
Christ for myself and embrace Him as my lord and savior.
Now, that was over 20 years ago. And like all of us, my faith journey has had its twists and
turns. It hasn’t always been a straight line. I have thanked God for the joys of parenthood
and Michelle’s willingness to put up with me. In the wake of failures and disappointments I've
questioned what God had in store for me and been reminded that God’s plans for us may not
always match our own short-sighted desires.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And let me tell you, these past two years, they have deepened my faith. The presidency has
a funny way of making a person feel the need to pray.

Abe Lincoln said, as many of you

know, “I have been driven to my knees many times by the overwhelming conviction that I had
no place else to go.”
Fortunately, I'm not alone in my prayers. Pastor friends like Joel Hunter and T.D. Jakes come
over to the Oval Office every once in a while to pray with me and pray for the nation. The
chapel at Camp David has provided consistent respite and fellowship. The director of our
Faith-based and Neighborhood Partnership’s office, Joshua DuBois -- young minister himself -he starts my morning off with meditations from Scripture.
Most of all, I've got friends around the country -- some who I know, some who I don’t know,
but I know their friends who are out there praying for me. One of them is an old friend
named Kaye Wilson. In our family we call her Momma Kaye. And she happens to be Malia
and Sasha’s godmother. And she has organized prayer circles for me all around the country.
She started small with her own Bible study group, but once I started running for President and
she heard what they were saying about me on cable, she felt the need to pray harder.

By

the time I was elected President, she says, “I just couldn’t keep up on my own.” “I was
having to pray eight, nine times a day just for you.”

So she enlisted help from around the

country.
It’s also comforting to know that people are praying for you who don’t always agree with you.
Tom Coburn, for example, is here. He is not only a dear friend but also a brother in Christ.
We came into the Senate at the same time. Even though we are on opposite sides of a whole
bunch of issues, part of what has bound us together is a shared faith, a recognition that we
pray to and serve the same God. And I keep praying that God will show him the light and he
will vote with me once in a while. It’s going to happen, Tom.

A ray of light is going to beam

down.
My Christian faith then has been a sustaining force for me over these last few years. All the
more so, when Michelle and I hear our faith questioned from time to time, we are reminded
that ultimately what matters is not what other people say about us but whether we're being
true to our conscience and true to our God. “Seek first His kingdom and His righteousness
and all these things will be given to you as well.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
As I travel across the country folks often ask me what is it that I pray for. And like most of
you, my prayers sometimes are general: Lord, give me the strength to meet the challenges
of my office. Sometimes they’re specific: Lord, give me patience as I watch Malia go to her
first dance -- where there will be boys. Lord, have that skirt get longer as she travels to that
dance.
But while I petition God for a whole range of things, there are a few common themes that do
recur. The first category of prayer comes out of the urgency of the Old Testament prophets
and the Gospel itself. I pray for my ability to help those who are struggling. Christian
tradition teaches that one day the world will be turned right side up and everything will return
as it should be. But until that day, we're called to work on behalf of a God that chose justice
and mercy and compassion to the most vulnerable.
We've seen a lot of hardship these past two years. Not a day passes when I don't get a letter
from somebody or meet someone who’s out of work or lost their home or without health care.
The story Randall told about his father -- that's a story that a whole lot of Americans have
gone through over these past couple of years.
Sometimes I can't help right away. Sometimes what I can do to try to improve the economy
or to curb foreclosures or to help deal with the health care system -- sometimes it seems so
distant and so remote, so profoundly inadequate to the enormity of the need. And it is my
faith, then, that biblical injunction to serve the least of these, that keeps me going and that
keeps me from being overwhelmed. It’s faith that reminds me that despite being just one
very imperfect man, I can still help whoever I can, however I can, wherever I can, for as long
as I can, and that somehow God will buttress these efforts.
It also helps to know that none of us are alone in answering this call. It’s being taken up each
and every day by so many of you -- back home, your churches, your temples and
synagogues, your fellow congregants -- so many faith groups across this great country of
ours.
I came upon a group recently called “charity: water,” a group that supports clean water
projects overseas. This is a project that was started by a former nightclub promoter named
Scott Harrison who grew weary of living only for himself and feeling like he wasn’t following
Christ as well as he should.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And because of Scott’s good work, “charity: water” has helped 1.7 million people get access to
clean water. And in the next 10 years, he plans to make clean water accessible to a hundred
million more. That’s the kind of promoting we need more of, and that’s the kind of faith that
moves mountains. And there’s stories like that scattered across this room of people who’ve
taken it upon themselves to make a difference.
Now, sometimes faith groups can do the work of caring for the least of these on their own;
sometimes they need a partner, whether it’s in business or government. And that’s why my
administration has taken a fresh look at the way we organize with faith groups, the way we
work with faith groups through our Office of Faith-based and Neighborhood Partnerships.
And through that office, we’re expanding the way faith groups can partner with our
government. We’re helping them feed more kids who otherwise would go hungry. We’re
helping fatherhood groups get dads the support they need to be there for their children.
We’re working with non-profits to improve the lives of people around the world. And we’re
doing it in ways that are aligned with our constitutional principles. And in this work, we intend
to expand it in the days ahead, rooted in the notions of partnership and justice and the
imperatives to help the poor.
Of course there are some needs that require more resources than faith groups have at their
disposal. There’s only so much a church can do to help all the families in need -- all those
who need help making a mortgage payment, or avoiding foreclosure, or making sure their
child can go to college. There’s only so much that a nonprofit can do to help a community
rebuild in the wake of disaster. There’s only so much the private sector will do to help folks
who are desperately sick get the care that they need.
And that's why I continue to believe that in a caring and in a just society, government must
have a role to play; that our values, our love and our charity must find expression not just in
our families, not just in our places of work and our places of worship, but also in our
government and in our politics.
Over the past two years, the nature of these obligations, the proper role of government has
obviously been the subject of enormous controversy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And the debates have been fierce as one side’s version of compassion and community may be
interpreted by the other side as an oppressive and irresponsible expansion of the state or an
unacceptable restriction on individual freedom.
That's why a second recurring theme in my prayers is a prayer for humility. Now, God
answered this prayer for me early on by having me marry Michelle. Because whether it’s
reminding me of a chore undone, or questioning the wisdom of watching my third football
game in a row on Sunday, she keeps me humble.
But in this life of politics when debates have become so bitterly polarized, and changes in the
media lead so many of us just to listen to those who reinforce our existing biases, it’s useful
to go back to Scripture to remind ourselves that none of has all the answers -- none of us, no
matter what our political party or our station in life.
The full breadth of human knowledge is like a grain of sand in God’s hands. And there are
some mysteries in this world we cannot fully comprehend. As it’s written in Job, “God’s voice
thunders in marvelous ways. He does great things beyond our understandings.”
The challenge I find then is to balance this uncertainty, this humility, with the need to fight for
deeply held convictions, to be open to other points of view but firm in our core principles. And
I pray for this wisdom every day.
I pray that God will show me and all of us the limits of our understanding, and open our ears
and our hearts to our brothers and sisters with different points of view; that such reminders of
our shared hopes and our shared dreams and our shared limitations as children of God will
reveal the way forward that we can travel together.
And the last recurring theme, one that binds all prayers together, is that I might walk closer
with God and make that walk my first and most important task.
In our own lives it’s easy to be consumed by our daily worries and our daily concerns. And it
is even easier at a time when everybody is busy, everybody is stressed, and everybody -- our
culture is obsessed with wealth and power and celebrity. And often it takes a brush with
hardship or tragedy to shake us out of that, to remind us of what matters most.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
We see an aging parent wither under a long illness, or we lose a daughter or a husband in
Afghanistan, we watch a gunman open fire in a supermarket -- and we remember how fleeting
life can be. And we ask ourselves how have we treated others, whether we’ve told our family
and friends how much we love them. And it’s in these moments, when we feel most intensely
our mortality and our own flaws and the sins of the world, that we most desperately seek to
touch the face of God.
So my prayer this morning is that we might seek His face not only in those moments, but
each and every day; that every day as we go through the hustle and bustle of our lives,
whether it’s in Washington or Hollywood or anywhere in between, that we might every so
often rise above the here and now, and kneel before the Eternal; that we might remember,
Kaye, the fact that those who wait on the Lord will soar on wings like eagles, and they will run
and not be weary, and they will walk and not faint.
When I wake in the morning, I wait on the Lord, and I ask Him to give me the strength to do
right by our country and its people. And when I go to bed at night I wait on the Lord, and I
ask Him to forgive me my sins, and look after my family and the American people, and make
me an instrument of His will.
I say these prayers hoping they will be answered, and I say these prayers knowing that I
must work and must sacrifice and must serve to see them answered. But I also say these
prayers knowing that the act of prayer itself is a source of strength. It’s a reminder that our
time on Earth is not just about us; that when we open ourselves to the possibility that God
might have a larger purpose for our lives, there’s a chance that somehow, in ways that we
may never fully know, God will use us well.
May the Lord bless you and keep you, and may He bless this country that we love.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329575" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Presidential_Victory_Speech.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Presidential%20Victory%20Speech.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
President-Elect Victory Address
delivered 4 November 2008, Chicago, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, Chicago.
If there is anyone out there who still doubts that America is a place where all things are
possible; who still wonders if the dream of our founders is alive in our time; who still
questions the power of our democracy: Tonight is your answer.
It's the answer told by lines that stretched around schools and churches in numbers this
nation has never seen; by people who waited three hours and four hours, many for the very
first time in their lives, because they believed that this time must be different; that their
voices could be that difference.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It's the answer spoken by young and old, rich and poor, Democrat and Republican, black,
white, Hispanic, Asian, Native American, gay, straight, disabled and not disabled -- Americans
who sent a message to the world that we have never been just a collection of individuals or a
collection of Red States and Blue States: we are, and always will be, the United States of
America!
It's the answer that -- that led those who have been told for so long by so many to be cynical,
and fearful, and doubtful about what we can achieve to put their hands on the arc of history
and bend it once more toward the hope of a better day.
It's been a long time coming, but tonight, because of what we did on this day, in this election,
at this defining moment, change has come to America.
A little bit earlier this evening, I received an extraordinarily gracious call from Senator McCain.
Senator McCain fought long and hard in this campaign, and he's fought even longer and
harder for the country that he loves. He has endured sacrifices for America that most of us
cannot begin to imagine. We are better off for the service rendered by this brave and selfless
leader. I congratulate him; I congratulate Governor Palin for all that they've achieved, and I
look forward to working with them to renew this nation's promise in the months ahead.
I want to thank my partner in this journey, a man who campaigned from his heart and spoke
for the men and women he grew up with on the streets of Scranton and rode with on the train
home to Delaware, the Vice President-elect of the United States, Joe Biden.
And I would not be standing here tonight without the unyielding support of my best friend for
the last 16 years, the rock of our family, the love of my life, the nation's next First Lady:
Michelle Obama. Sasha and Malia, I love you both more than you can imagine, and you have
earned the new puppy that's coming with us to the White House. And while she's no longer
with us, I know my grandmother's watching, along with the family that made me who I am. I
miss them tonight, and I know that my debt to them is beyond measure. To my sister Maya,
my sister Alma, all my other brothers and sisters -- thank you so much for the support that
you've given me. I am grateful to them.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And to my campaign manager, David Plouffe -- the unsung hero of this campaign, who built
the best -- the best political campaign, I think, in the history of the United States of America.
To my chief strategist David Axelrod -- who's been a partner with me every step of the way.
To the best campaign team ever assembled in the history of politics -- you made this happen,
and I am forever grateful for what you've sacrificed to get it done.
But above all, I will never forget who this victory truly belongs to. It belongs to you. It
belongs to you. I was never the likeliest candidate for this office. We didn't start with much
money or many endorsements. Our campaign was not hatched in the halls of Washington. It
began in the backyards of Des Moines and the living rooms of Concord and the front porches
of Charleston. It was built by working men and women who dug into what little savings they
had to give 5 dollars and 10 dollars and 20 dollars to the cause. It grew strength from the
young people who rejected the myth of their generation's apathy, who left their homes and
their families for jobs that offered little pay and less sleep. It drew strength from the not-soyoung people who braved the bitter cold and scorching heat to knock on doors of perfect
strangers, and from the millions of Americans who volunteered and organized and proved that
more than two centuries later a government of the people, by the people, and for the people
has not perished from the Earth. This is your victory.
And I know you didn't do this just to win an election. And I know you didn't do it for me. You
did it because you understand the enormity of the task that lies ahead. For even as we
celebrate tonight, we know the challenges that tomorrow will bring are the greatest of our
lifetime: two wars, a planet in peril, the worst financial crisis in a century. Even as we stand
here tonight, we know there are brave Americans waking up in the deserts of Iraq and the
mountains of Afghanistan to risk their lives for us. There are mothers and fathers who will lie
awake after the children fall asleep and wonder how they'll make the mortgage or pay their
doctors' bills or save enough for their child's college education. There's new energy to
harness, new jobs to be created, new schools to build, and threats to meet, alliances to repair.
The road ahead will be long. Our climb will be steep. We may not get there in one year or
even in one term. But, America, I have never been more hopeful than I am tonight that we
will get there. I promise you, we as a people will get there.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
There will be setbacks and false starts. There are many who won't agree with every decision
or policy I make as President. And we know the government can't solve every problem. But I
will always be honest with you about the challenges we face. I will listen to you, especially
when we disagree. And, above all, I will ask you to join in the work of remaking this nation,
the only way it's been done in America for 221 years -- block by block, brick by brick,
calloused hand by calloused hand. What began 21 months ago in the depths of winter cannot
end on this autumn night.
This victory alone is not the change we seek. It is only the chance for us to make that change.
And that cannot happen if we go back to the way things were. It can't happen without you,
without a new spirit of service, a new spirit of sacrifice. So let us summon a new spirit of
patriotism, of responsibility, where each of us resolves to pitch in and work harder and look
after not only ourselves but each other. Let us remember that, if this financial crisis taught us
anything, it's that we cannot have a thriving Wall Street while Main Street suffers. In this
country, we rise or fall as one nation, as one people. Let's resist the temptation to fall back on
the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long.
Let's remember that it was a man from this state who first carried the banner of the
Republican Party to the White House, a Party founded on the values of self-reliance and
individual liberty and national unity. Those are values that we all share. And while the
Democratic Party has won a great victory tonight, we do so with a measure of humility and
determination to heal the divides that have held back our progress. As Lincoln said to a nation
far more divided than ours: "We are not enemies but friends...." "Though passion may have
strained, it must not break our bonds of affection."1
And to those Americans who -- whose support I have yet to earn, I may not have won your
vote tonight, but I hear your voices. I need your help. And I will be your President, too.
And to all those watching tonight from beyond our shores, from parliaments and palaces, to
those who are huddled around radios in the forgotten corners of the world, our stories are
singular, but our destiny is shared, and a new dawn of American leadership is at hand.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
To those -- To those who would tear the world down: We will defeat you. To those who seek
peace and security: We support you. And to all those who have wondered if America's beacon
still burns as bright: Tonight we've proved once more that the true strength of our nation
comes not from the might of our arms or the scale of our wealth, but from the enduring power
of our ideals: democracy, liberty, opportunity, and unyielding hope.
That's the true genius of America: that America can change. Our union can be perfected. What
we've already achieved gives us hope for what we can and must achieve tomorrow.
This election had many firsts and many stories that will be told for generations. But one that's
on my mind tonight's about a woman who cast her ballot in Atlanta. She's a lot like the
millions of others who stood in line to make their voice heard in this election except for one
thing: Ann Nixon Cooper is 106 years old.
She was born just a generation past slavery; a time when there were no cars on the road or
planes in the sky; when someone like her couldn't vote for two reasons: because she was a
woman and because of the color of her skin.
And tonight, I think about all that she's seen throughout her century in America -- the
heartache and the hope; the struggle and the progress; the times we were told that we can't,
and the people who pressed on with that American creed: Yes we can.
At a time when women's voices were silenced and their hopes dismissed, she lived to see
them stand up and speak out and reach for the ballot: Yes we can.
When there was despair in the dust bowl and depression across the land, she saw a nation
conquer fear itself with a New Deal, new jobs, a new sense of common purpose: Yes we can.
When the bombs fell on our harbor and tyranny threatened the world, she was there to
witness a generation rise to greatness and a democracy was saved: Yes we can.
She was there for the buses in Montgomery, the hoses in Birmingham, a bridge in Selma, and
a preacher from Atlanta who told a people that "we shall overcome": Yes we can.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
A man touched down on the moon, a wall came down in Berlin, a world was connected by our
own science and imagination.
And this year, in this election, she touched her finger to a screen, and cast her vote, because
after 106 years in America, through the best of times and the darkest of hours, she knows
how America can change: Yes we can.
America, we have come so far. We have seen so much. But there is so much more to do. So
tonight, let us ask ourselves -- if our children should live to see the next century; if my
daughters should be so lucky to live as long as Ann Nixon Cooper, what change will they see?
What progress will we have made?
This is our chance to answer that call. This is our moment. This is our time, to put our people
back to work and open doors of opportunity for our kids; to restore prosperity and promote
the cause of peace; to reclaim the American dream and reaffirm that fundamental truth, that,
out of many, we are one;2 that while we breathe, we hope. And where we are met with
cynicism and doubt and those who tell us that we can't, we will respond with that timeless
creed that sums up the spirit of a people: Yes, we can.
Thank you.
God bless you.
And may God bless the United States of America.

¹Abraham Lincoln, Second Inaugural Address
²E pluribus unum

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. AmericanRhetoric.com Updated 12/10/21 Copyright status = Uncertain

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329769" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Presser_Unannounced_Heath_Care.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Presser%20Unannounced%20Heath%20Care.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Unannounced Press Briefing - Q&A on Jobs and Health Care Reform
delivered 9 February 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, everybody. I am glad to see that all of you braved the weather to be here. A little while ago I had a
meeting with the Democratic and Republican congressional leaders, and it went very well. In fact, I
understand that McConnell and Reid are out doing snow angels on the South Lawn together. Can you
picture that, Chuck? Not really?
The meeting did go well, and I appreciate them making the trek. We had a good and frank conversation and
it's one that I hope we can continue on a more regular basis.
We all understand that there are legitimate and genuine differences between the parties, but despite the
political posturing that often paralyzes this town, there are many issues upon which we can and should
agree. That's what the American people are demanding of us. I think they're tired of every day being
Election Day in Washington. And at this critical time in our country, the people sent us here expect a
seriousness of purpose that transcends petty politics.
That's why I'm going to continue to seek the best ideas from either party as we work to tackle the pressing
challenges ahead. I am confident, for example, that when one in 10 of our fellow citizens can't work, we
should be able to come together and help business create more jobs. We ought to be able to agree on
providing small businesses with additional tax credits and much needed lines of credit. We ought to agree
on investments in crumbling roads and bridges, and we should agree on tax breaks for making homes more
energy-efficient -- all of which will put more Americans to work.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Many of the job proposals that I've laid out have passed the House and are soon going to be debated in the
Senate. We spent a lot of time in this meeting discussing a jobs package and how we could move forward
on that. And if there are additional ideas, I will consider them as well. What I won't consider is doing
nothing in the face of a lot of hardship across the country.
We also talked about restoring fiscal responsibility. There are few matters on which there is as much
vigorous bipartisan agreement, at least in public, but unfortunately there's also a lot of partisan wrangling
behind closed doors. This is what we know for sure: For us to solve this extraordinary problem that is so
many years in the making, it's going to take the cooperation of both parties. It's not going to happen in any
other way.
I'm pleased that Congress supported my request to restore the pay-as-you-go rule, which was instrumental
in turning deficits into surpluses during the 1990s. I've also called for a bipartisan fiscal commission.
Unfortunately this measure, which originally had received the support of a bipartisan majority of the Senate
and was cosponsored by Senators Conrad and Gregg, Democrats and Republicans, was blocked there. So
I'm going to be creating this commission by executive order. And during our meeting I asked the leadership
of both parties to join in this serious effort to address our long-term deficits, because when the politics is put
aside, the reality of our fiscal challenge is not subject to interpretation. Math is not partisan. There ought to
be a debate about how to close our deficits. What we can't accept is business as usual, and we can't afford
grandstanding at the expense of actually getting something done.
During our meeting we also touched briefly on how we can move forward on health reform. I've already
announced that in two weeks I'll be holding a meeting with people from both parties, and as I told the
congressional leadership, I'm looking forward to a constructive debate with plans that need to be measured
against this test. Does it bring down costs for all Americans as well as for the federal government, which
spends a huge amount on health care? Does it provide adequate protection against abuses by the
insurance industry? Does it make coverage affordable and available to the tens of millions of working
Americans who don't have it right now? And does it help us get on a path of fiscal sustainability?
We also talked about why this is so urgent. Just this week, there was a report that Anthem Blue Cross,
which is the largest insurer in the largest state, California, is planning on raising premiums for many
individual policyholders by as much as 39 percent. If we don't act, this is just a preview of coming
attractions. Premiums will continue to rise for folks with insurance; millions more will lose their coverage
altogether; our deficits will continue to grow larger. And we have an obligation -- both parties -- to tackle this
issue in a serious way.
Now, bipartisanship depends on a willingness among both Democrats and Republicans to put aside matters
of party for the good of the country. I won't hesitate to embrace a good idea from my friends in the minority
party, but I also won't hesitate to condemn what I consider to be obstinacy that's rooted not in substantive
disagreements but in political expedience. We talked about this as well, particularly when it comes to the
confirmation process. I respect the Senate's role to advise and consent, but for months, qualified, noncontroversial nominees for critical positions in government, often positions related to our national security,
have been held up despite having overwhelming support. My nominee for one important job, the head of
General Services Administration, which helps run the government, was denied a vote for nine months.
When she finally got a vote on her nomination, she was confirmed 96 to nothing. That's not advise and
consent; that's delay and obstruct.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
One senator, as you all are aware, had put a hold on every single nominee that we had put forward due to a
dispute over a couple of earmarks in his state. In our meeting, I asked the congressional leadership to put a
stop to these holds in which nominees for critical jobs are denied a vote for months. Surely we can set
aside partisanship and do what's traditionally been done to confirm these nominations. If the Senate does
not act -- and I made this very clear -- if the Senate does not act to confirm these nominees, I will consider
making several recess appointments during the upcoming recess, because we can't afford to allow politics
to stand in the way of a well-functioning government.
My hope is that this will be the first of a series of meetings that I have with leadership of both parties in
Congress. We've got to get past the tired debates that have plagued our politics and left behind nothing but
soaring debt and mounting challenges, greater hardships among the American people, and extraordinary
frustrations among the American people. Those frustrations are what led me to run for President, and as
long as I'm here in Washington, I intend to try to make this government work on their behalf.
So, you know, I'm going to take a couple of questions, guys.
Major.
Question: After meeting with you, John Boehner came out and told us, "The House can't pass the health
care bill it once passed; the Senate can't pass the health care bill it once passed. Why would we have a
conversation about legislation that can't pass?" As a part of that, he said you and your White House and
congressional Democrats should start over entirely from scratch on health care reform. How do you
respond? Are you willing to do that?
President Obama: Well, here's how I responded to John in the meeting, and I've said this publicly before.
There are some core goals that have to be met. We've got to control costs, both for families and
businesses, but also for our government. Everybody out there who talks about deficits has to acknowledge
that the single biggest driver of our deficits is health care spending. We cannot deal with our deficits and
debt long term unless we get a handle on that. So that has to be part of a package.
Number two, we've got to deal with insurance abuses that affect millions of Americans who've got health
insurance. And number three, we've got to make health insurance more available to folks in the individual
market, as I just mentioned, in California, who are suddenly seeing their premiums go up 39 percent. That
applies to the majority of small businesses, as well as sole proprietors. They are struggling.
So I've got these goals. Now, we have a package, as we work through the differences between the House
and the Senate, and we'll put it up on a Web site for all to see over a long period of time, that meets those
criteria, meets those goals. But when I was in Baltimore talking to the House Republicans, they indicated,
we can accomplish some of these goals at no cost. And I said, great, let me see it. And I have no interest
in doing something that's more expensive and harder to accomplish if somebody else has an easier way to
do it.
So I'm going to be starting from scratch in the sense that I will be open to any ideas that help promote these
goals.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
What I will not do, what I don't think makes sense and I don't think the American people want to see, would
be another year of partisan wrangling around these issues; another six months or eight months or nine
months worth of hearings in every single committee in the House and the Senate in which there's a lot of
posturing. Let's get the relevant parties together; let's put the best ideas on the table. My hope is that we
can find enough overlap that we can say this is the right way to move forward, even if I don't get every
single thing that I want.
But here's the point that I made to John Boehner and Mitch McConnell: Bipartisanship can't be that I agree
to all the things that they believe in or want, and they agree to none of the things I believe in and want, and
that's the price of bipartisanship, right? But that's sometimes the way it gets presented. Mitch McConnell
said something very nice in the meeting about how he supports our goals on nuclear energy and clean coal
technology and more drilling to increase oil production. Well, of course he likes that; that's part of the
Republican agenda for energy, which I accept. And I'm willing to move off some of the preferences of my
party in order to meet them halfway. But there's got to be some give from their side as well. That's true on
health care; that's true on energy; that's true on financial reform. That's what I'm hoping gets accomplished
at the summit.
Question: Do you agree the House and Senate bill can't pass anymore?
President Obama: What I agree with is that the public has soured on the process that they saw over the
last year. I think that actually contaminates how they view the substance of the bills. I think it is important
for all of these issues to be aired so that people have confidence if we're moving forward on such a
significant part of the economy as health care, that there is complete transparency and all of these issues
have been adequately vetted and adequately debated.
And this gives an opportunity not just for Democrats to say here's what we think we should do, but it also
gives Republicans a showcase before the entire country to say here's our plan; here's why we think this will
work. And one of the things that John Boehner and Mitch McConnell both said is they didn't think that the
status quo was acceptable, and that's, right there, promising. That indicates that if all sides agree that we
can't just continue with business as usual then maybe we can actually get something done.
Question: Mr. President, one of the reasons Anthem said -- Anthem Blue Cross says that it's raising its
premiums is because so many people are dropping out of individual coverage because the economy is so
bad and that leaves the people in the pool who are people who need medical care driving up costs. One of
the reasons why businesses are not expanding right now, in addition to some of the credit issues you've
talked about, at least according to business leaders, is they say there's an uncertainty of what they need to
plan for because of the energy bill, because of health care. That's what they say. I'm not saying it's true or
not, but that's what they say. What do you say when you hear that?
President Obama: Well, I think that the biggest uncertainty has been we just went through the worst
recession since the Great Depression and people weren't sure whether the financial system was going to
melt down and whether we were going to tip into a endless recession. So let's be clear about the sources of
uncertainty in terms of business investment over the last several years: A huge contraction, trillions of
dollars of losses in people's 401(k)s; people have a lot of debt coming out of the previous decade that they
still haven't worked out; the housing market losing a whole bunch of value.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So the good news is that where we were contracting by 6 percent the economy is now growing by 6
percent. The CEOs I talked to are saying they are now making investments, and I anticipate that they're
going to start hiring at a more rapid clip. What I've also heard is them saying that we would like to feel like
Washington is working and able to get some things done.
There are two ways of interpreting the issue of uncertainty. One way would be to say, well, you know what,
we'll just go back to what we were doing before on, let's say, the financial markets. We won't have the
regulations that we need; we won't make any changes in terms of "too big to fail." That will provide certainty
-- until the next financial crisis.
That's not the kind of certainty I think that the financial markets need. The kind of certainty they need is for
us to go ahead and agree on a bipartisan effort to put some rules of the road in place so that consumers are
protected in the financial markets; so that we don't have banks that are too big to fail; that we have ways of
winding them down and protecting the overall system without taxpayer bailouts. That requires legislation.
The sooner we can get that done, the better.
The same would be true when it comes to health care. A lot of CEOs I hear from will say, boy, we'd like you
to get health care settled one way or another, but they will acknowledge that when they open up their latest
invoice for their premiums and they find out that those premiums have gone up 20 percent or 25 percent,
that's the kind of uncertainty that also tamps down business investment.
So I guess my answer would be this: The sooner the business community has a sense that we've got our
act together here in Washington and can move forward on big, serious issues in a substantive way without a
lot of posturing and partisan wrangling, I think the better off the entire country is going to be. I absolutely
agree on that.
What I think is important is not to buy into this notion that is perpetrated by some of the business interests
that got a stake in this who are fighting financial reform, for example, to say, boy, we'd be doing fine if we
just didn't try to regulate the banks. That I think would be a mistake.
Question: Just to play devil's advocate on that -- a small business, let's say, not somebody who's going to
be affected by the regulatory reform, small business -- you have proposed, you would acknowledge, a bold
agenda. And a small business might wonder, I don't know how the energy bill is going to affect me, I don't
know how the health care reform bill is going to affect me -- I'd better hold off on hiring.
President Obama: The small businesses I talk to -- and I've been talking to a lot of them as I've been
traveling around the country over the last several months -- their biggest problem is right now they can't get
credit out of their banks so they're uncertain about that. And they're still uncertain about orders -- do they
just have enough customers to justify them doing more.
It's looking better at this point. But that's not the rationale for people saying, I'm not hiring. Let me put it this
way. Most small businesses right now, if they've got enough customers to make a profit and they can get
the bank loans required to boost their payroll, boost their inventory, and sell to those customers, they will do
so. Okay?
Let's see, let's get a print guy here. David.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: You heard McConnell talk about nuclear power, offshore drilling, free trade -- that's a lot of
Republican stuff. Is your party going to go for that if you decide to support that -President Obama: You know, I think that on energy there should be a bipartisan agreement that we have
to take a both/and approach rather than an either/or approach. What do I mean by that? I am very firm in
my conviction that the country that leads the way in clean energy -- solar, wind, biodiesel, geothermal -- that
country is going to win the race in the 21st century global economy. So we have to move in that direction.
What is also true is that given our energy needs in order to continue economic growth, produce jobs, make
sure our businesses are competitive around the world, that we're going to need some of the old, traditional
energy sources as we're developing these new ones and ramping them up. So we can't overnight convert
to an all-solar or an all-wind economy. That just can't happen. We're going to have needs in these
traditional sources.
And so the question then is, are we going to be able to put together a package that includes safe, secure
nuclear power; that includes new technologies so that we can use coal -- which we have in abundance and
is very cheap, but often is adding to our greenhouse gases -- can we find sequestration technologies that
clean that up; can we identify opportunities to increase our oil and natural gas production in a way that is
environmentally sustainable? And that should be part of a package with our development of clean energy.
And my hope is that my Republican friends, but also Democrats, say to themselves, let's be practical and
let's do both. Let's not just do one or the other; let's do both. Over time I think the transition is going to be
more and more clean energy and over time fossil fuels become less prominent in our overall energy mix.
But we've got to do both.
Question: How confident are you there will be that kind of consensus for that double-edged approach?
President Obama: I am just a eternal optimist -- and so -- it's the right thing to do. And all I can do is just
to keep on making the argument about what's right for the country and assume that over time people,
regardless of party, regardless of their particular political positions, are going to gravitate towards the truth.
Okay?
I'm going to take two more. Let's see -Question: How about the back?
President Obama: Well, I just want to make sure that I was getting a balance here, so -- go ahead, Chuck.
Question: Awwww -President Obama: Why is everybody moaning about Todd?
Question: He's too good. His questions are too precise.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: Iran -- we got the news today that they're doing more of these -- trying to enhance this uranium
even more. Obviously Secretary Gates today in Paris was quoted as saying basically the dialogue seems to
be over and now the question is sanctions. Where are we on sanctions? How close is this? I know you
had sort of an end-of-the-year deadline when you stood up there with Sarkozy and Brown. It's now
February. How quickly is this moving along?
President Obama: Well, it's moving along fairly quickly. I think that we have bent over backwards to say to
the Islamic Republic of Iran that we are willing to have a constructive conversation about how they can align
themselves with international norms and rules and reenter as full members of the international community.
The most obvious attempt was when we gave them an offer that said we are going to provide the
conversion of some of the low-enriched uranium that they already have into the isotopes that they need for
their medical research and for hospitals that would serve up to a million Iranian citizens. They rejected it -although one of the difficulties in dealing with Iran over the last several months is it's not always clear who's
speaking on behalf of the government, and we get a lot of different, mixed signals. But what's clear is, is
that they have not said yes to an agreement that Russia, China, Germany, France, Great Britain and the
United States all said was a good deal, and that the director of the IAEA said was the right thing to do and
that Iran should accept.
That indicates to us that, despite their posturing that their nuclear power is only for civilian use, that they in
fact continue to pursue a course that would lead to weaponization. And that is not acceptable to the
international community, not just to the United States. So what we've said from the start was we're moving
on dual tracks. If you want to accept the kinds of agreements with the international community that lead you
down a path of being a member of good standing, then we welcome you. If not -Question: Haven't they responded, though? I mean, by deciding to do what they did, with these -President Obama: Well, I'm getting to that.
Question: Okay.
President Obama: And if not, then the next step is sanctions. They have made their choice so far,
although the door is still open. And what we are going to be working on over the next several weeks is
developing a significant regime of sanctions that will indicate to them how isolated they are from the
international community as a whole.
Question: What do you mean by “regime of sanctions”?
President Obama: Well, meaning that there's going to be a -Question: Some will be U.N. and some will be -President Obama: We are going to be looking at a variety of ways in which countries indicate to Iran that
their approach is unacceptable. And the U.N. will be one aspect of that broader effort.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Question: China will be there? You're confident?
President Obama: Well, the -- we are confident right now that the international community is unified
around Iran's misbehavior in this area. How China operates at the Security Council as we pursue sanctions
is something that we're going to have to see. One thing I'm pleased about is to see how forward-leaning the
Russians have been on this issue. I think they clearly have seen that Iran hasn't been serious about solving
what is a solvable dispute between Iran and the international community.
All right? I'm going to make this the last question. And I'll take somebody from the back -- yes.
Question: Me?
President Obama: Yes.
Question: Thanks for doing this. It's been a while. On health care, the Republicans are asking whether
the February 25th session will include economists and public interest groups and people supporting your
side, or will it just be the members of Congress? And on Anthem Blue Cross, do you have the authority to
go in and tell a private company they can't charge that -- how will you stop them?
President Obama: Well, I don't have the authority as I understand it -- I can't simply issue an executive
order lowering everybody's rates. If I could I would have done that already and saved myself a lot of grief
on Capitol Hill. That's why reform is so important. That's why the status quo is unacceptable.
But there is no shortcut in dealing with this issue. I know the American people get frustrated in debating
something like health care because you get a whole bunch of different claims being made by different
groups and different interests. It is a big, complicated, tough issue. But what is also true is that without
some action on the part of Congress, it is very unlikely that we see any improvement over the current
trajectory. And the current trajectory is premiums keep on going up 10, 15, 20, 30 percent. The current
trajectory is more and more people are losing health care.
I don't know if people noted, because during the health care debate everybody was saying the President is
trying to take over -- a government takeover of health care. I don't know if anybody noticed that for the first
time this year you saw more people getting health care from government than you did from the private
sector -- not because of anything we did, but because more and more people are losing their health care
from their employers. It's becoming unaffordable. That's what we're trying to prevent.
We want people to be able to get health care from their employers. But we also understand that you've got
to fix the system so that people are able to get it at affordable rates and small businesses can afford to give
their employees insurance at an affordable rate. And that's not happening right now.
To your question about the 25th, my hope is that this doesn't end up being political theater, as I think some
of you have phrased it. I want a substantive discussion. We haven't refined exactly how the agenda is
going to go that day. We want to talk with both the Democratic and Republican leaders to find out what they
think would be most useful. I do want to make sure that there's some people like the Congressional Budget
Office, for example, that are considered non-partisan, who can answer questions.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
In this whole health care debate I'm reminded of the story that was told about Senator Moynihan, who was I
guess in an argument with one of his colleagues, and his colleague was losing the argument so he got a
little flustered and said to Senator Moynihan, "Well, I'm entitled to my own opinion." And Senator Moynihan
said, "Well, you're entitled to your own opinion, but you're not entitled to your own facts." I think that's the
key to a successful dialogue on the 25th or on health care.
Let's establish some common facts. Let's establish what the issues are, what the problems are, and let's
test out in front of the American people what ideas work and what ideas don't. And if we can establish that
factual accuracy about how different approaches would work, then I think we can make some progress.
And it may be that some of the facts that come up are ones that make my party a little bit uncomfortable. So
if it's established that by working seriously on medical malpractice and tort reform that we can reduce some
of those costs, I've said from the beginning of this debate I'd be willing to work on that. On the other hand, if
I'm told that that is only a fraction of the problem and that is not the biggest driver of health care costs, then
I'm also going to insist, okay, let's look at that as one aspect of it, but what else are we willing to do?
And this is where it gets back to the point I was making earlier. Bipartisanship cannot mean simply that
Democrats give up everything that they believe in, find the handful of things that Republicans have been
advocating for and we do those things, and then we have bipartisanship. That's not how it works in any
other realm of life. That's certainly not how it works in my marriage with Michelle, although I usually do give
in most of the time. But the -- there's got to be some give and take, and that's what I'm hoping can be
accomplished. And I'm confident that's what the American people are looking for.
So, all right?
Question: Jobs question?
President Obama: Okay, since there wasn't a jobs question -Question: Well, I just -President Obama: I'll make this the last one, jobs question.
Question: At the stakeout, the Republicans were saying, well, the jobs package we've seen, it's not really
ready yet, we're a little worried about the cost. Are you satisfied that there is something that can be quickly
moved through Congress on jobs?
President Obama: Well, my understanding is -- first of all, the House has moved forward a jobs package
that has some good elements in it. My understanding is, is that there is bipartisan talks taking place as we
speak on the Senate side about some elements of a package.
I think there are some things that a lot of people agree on. Just to give you an example, the idea of
eliminating capital gains for small businesses -- something we can all agree on. I talked about it at the State
of the Union address. My hope would be that we would all agree on a mechanism to get community banks
who are lending to small businesses more capital, because that is something that I keep on hearing is one
of the biggest problems that small businesses have out there.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I think that it's realistic for us to get a package moving quickly that may not include all the things I think
need to be done, and it may be that that first package builds some trust and confidence that Democrats and
Republicans on Capitol Hill can work together and then we move on to the next aspect of the package and
so forth. It may take a series of incremental steps, but the one thing I'm absolutely clear about is, is that
we've got an economy that's growing right now, a huge boost in productivity -- that's the good news. The
bad news is, is that companies still haven't taken that final step in actually putting people on their payroll fulltime.
We're seeing an increase in temporary workers, but they haven't yet taken on that full-time worker. And so
providing some additional impetus to them, right as the economy is moving in a positive direction, I think can
end up yielding some good results.
All right? Thank you, guys. That was pretty good, thanks.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329748" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Presser_XMas_Terrorist_Attempt.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Presser%20XMas%20Terrorist%20Attempt.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Press Conference on Security Following Christmas Terrorist Attempt
delivered 5 January 2010, White House, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

I just concluded a meeting with members of my national security team, including those from
our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement agencies involved in the security
reviews that I ordered after the failed attack on Christmas Day.
I called these leaders to the White House because we face a challenge of the utmost
urgency. As we saw on Christmas, al Qaeda and its extremist allies will stop at nothing in their
efforts to kill Americans. And we are determined not only to thwart those plans, but to
disrupt, dismantle and defeat their networks once and for all.
Indeed, over the past year, we've taken the fight to al Qaeda and its allies wherever they plot
and train, be it in Afghanistan and Pakistan, in Yemen and Somalia, or in other countries
around the world.
Here at home, our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement agencies have worked
together with considerable success: gathering intelligence, stitching it together, and making
arrests -- from Denver to Texas, from Illinois to New York -- disrupting plots and saving
American lives. And these successes have not come without a price, as we saw last week in
the loss of our courageous CIA officers in Afghanistan.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But when a suspected terrorist is able to board a plane with explosives on Christmas Day the
system has failed in a potentially disastrous way. And it's my responsibility to find out why,
and to correct that failure so that we can prevent such attacks in the future.
And that's why, shortly after the attempted bombing over Detroit, I ordered two reviews. I
directed Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano to review aviation screening,
technology and procedures. She briefed me on her initial findings today, and I'm pleased that
this review is drawing on the best science and technology, including the expertise of Secretary
of Energy Steven Chu and his department.
I also directed my counterterrorism and homeland security advisor John Brennan to lead a
thorough review into our terrorist watch-listing system so we can fix what went wrong. As we
discussed today, this ongoing review continues to reveal more about the human and systemic
failures that almost cost nearly 300 lives. We will make a summary of this preliminary report
public within the next few days, but let me share some of what we know so far.
As I described over the weekend, elements of our intelligence community knew that Umar
Farouk Abdulmutallab had traveled to Yemen and joined up with extremists there. It now
turns out that our intelligence community knew of other red flags -- that al Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula sought to strike not only American targets in Yemen, but the United States
itself. And we had information that this group was working with an individual who was known
-- who we now know was in fact the individual involved in the Christmas attack.
The bottom line is this: The U.S. government had sufficient information to have uncovered
this plot and potentially disrupt the Christmas Day attack. But our intelligence community
failed to connect those dots, which would have placed the suspect on the "no fly" list. In other
words, this was not a failure to collect intelligence; it was a failure to integrate and
understand the intelligence that we already had. The information was there. Agencies and
analysts who needed it had access to it. And our professionals were trained to look for it and
to bring it all together.
Now, I will accept that intelligence, by its nature, is imperfect, but it is increasingly clear that
intelligence was not fully analyzed or fully leveraged. That's not acceptable, and I will not
tolerate it. Time and again, we've learned that quickly piecing together information and
taking swift action is critical to staying one step ahead of a nimble adversary.
So we have to do better -- and we will do better. And we have to do it quickly. American
lives are on the line. So I made it clear today to my team: I want our initial reviews
completed this week. I want specific recommendations for corrective actions to fix what went
wrong. I want those reforms implemented immediately, so that this doesn't happen again
and so we can prevent future attacks. And I know that every member of my team that I met
with today understands the urgency of getting this right. And I appreciate that each of them
took responsibility for the shortfalls within their own agencies.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Immediately after the attack, I ordered concrete steps to protect the American people: new
screening and security for all flights, domestic and international; more explosive detection
teams at airports; more air marshals on flights; and deepening cooperation with international
partners.
In recent days, we've taken additional steps to improve security. Counterterrorism officials
have reviewed and updated our terrorist watch list system, including adding more individuals
to the "no fly" list. And while our review has found that our watch-listing system is not
broken, the failure to add Abdulmutallab to the "no fly" list shows that this system needs to be
strengthened.
The State Department is now requiring embassies and consulates to include current visa
information in their warning on individuals with terrorist or suspected terrorist connections.
As of yesterday, the Transportation Security Administration, or TSA, is requiring enhanced
screening for passengers flying into the United States from, or flying through, nations on our
list of state sponsors of terrorism, or other countries of interest. And in the days ahead, I will
announce further steps to disrupt attacks, including better integration of information and
enhanced passenger screening for air travel.
Finally, some have suggested that the events on Christmas Day should cause us to revisit the
decision to close the prison at Guantanamo Bay. So let me be clear. It was always our intent
to transfer detainees to other countries only under conditions that provide assurances that our
security is being protected.
With respect to Yemen in particular, there's an ongoing security situation which we have been
confronting for some time, along with our Yemeni partner. Given the unsettled situation, I've
spoken to the Attorney General and we've agreed that we will not be transferring additional
detainees back to Yemen at this time.
But make no mistake: We will close Guantanamo prison, which has damaged our national
security interests and become a tremendous recruiting tool for al Qaeda. In fact, that was an
explicit rationale for the formation of al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula. And, as I've always
said, we will do so -- we will close the prison in a manner that keeps the American people safe
and secure.
Our reviews -- and the steps that we've taken and will continue to take -- go to the heart of
the kind of intelligence and homeland security we need in the 21st century. Just as al Qaeda
and its allies are constantly evolving and adapting their efforts to strike us, we have to
constantly adapt and evolve to defeat them, because as we saw on Christmas, the margin for
error is slim and the consequences of failure can be catastrophic.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
As these violent extremists pursue new havens, we intend to target al Qaeda wherever they
take root, forging new partnerships to deny them sanctuary, as we are doing currently with
the government in Yemen. As our adversaries seek new recruits, we'll constantly review and
rapidly update our intelligence and our institutions. As they refine our tactics, we'll enhance
our defenses, including smarter screening and security at airports, and investing in the
technologies that might have detected the kind of explosives used on Christmas.
In short, we need our intelligence, homeland security and law enforcement systems -- and the
people in them -- to be accountable and to work as intended: collecting, sharing, integrating,
analyzing, and acting on intelligence as quickly and effectively as possible to save innocent
lives -- not just most of the time, but all the time. That's what the American people deserve.
As President, that's exactly what I will demand.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329798" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Reforming_Wall_Street.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Reforming%20Wall%20Street.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Reforming Wall Street
delivered 22 April 2010, Cooper Union, New York, NY

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much. Everybody, please have a seat. Thank you very much. Well, thank
you. It is good to be back. It is good to be back in New York, it is good to be back in the
Great Hall at Cooper Union.
We’ve got some special guests here that I want to acknowledge. Congresswoman Carolyn
Maloney is here in the house. Governor David Paterson is here. Attorney General Andrew
Cuomo. State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli is here. The Mayor of New York City, Michael
Bloomberg. Dr. George Campbell, Jr., president of Cooper Union. And all the citywide elected
officials who are here. Thank you very much for your attendance.
It is wonderful to be back in Cooper Union, where generations of leaders and citizens have
come to defend their ideas and contest their differences. It’s also good to be back in Lower
Manhattan, a few blocks from Wall Street. It really is good to be back, because Wall Street is
the heart of our nation’s financial sector.
Now, since I last spoke here two years ago, our country has been through a terrible trial.
More than 8 million people have lost their jobs. Countless small businesses have had to shut
their doors. Trillions of dollars in savings have been lost -- forcing seniors to put off
retirement, young people to postpone college, entrepreneurs to give up on the dream of
starting a company. And as a nation we were forced to take unprecedented steps to rescue
the financial system and the broader economy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And as a result of the decisions we made -- some of which, let’s face it, were very unpopular - we are seeing hopeful signs. A little more than one year ago we were losing an average of
750,000 jobs each month. Today, America is adding jobs again. One year ago the economy
was shrinking rapidly. Today the economy is growing. In fact, we’ve seen the fastest
turnaround in growth in nearly three decades.
But you’re here and I’m here because we’ve got more work to do. Until this progress is felt
not just on Wall Street but on Main Street we cannot be satisfied. Until the millions of our
neighbors who are looking for work can find a job, and wages are growing at a meaningful
pace, we may be able to claim a technical recovery -- but we will not have truly recovered.
And even as we seek to revive this economy, it’s also incumbent on us to rebuild it stronger
than before. We don’t want an economy that has the same weaknesses that led to this crisis.
And that means addressing some of the underlying problems that led to this turmoil and
devastation in the first place.
Now, one of the most significant contributors to this recession was a financial crisis as dire as
any we’ve known in generations -- at least since the ’30s. And that crisis was born of a failure
of responsibility -- from Wall Street all the way to Washington -- that brought down many of
the world’s largest financial firms and nearly dragged our economy into a second Great
Depression.
It was that failure of responsibility that I spoke about when I came to New York more than
two years ago -- before the worst of the crisis had unfolded. It was back in 2007. And I take
no satisfaction in noting that my comments then have largely been borne out by the events
that followed. But I repeat what I said then because it is essential that we learn the lessons
from this crisis so we don’t doom ourselves to repeat it. And make no mistake, that is exactly
what will happen if we allow this moment to pass -- and that’s an outcome that is
unacceptable to me and it’s unacceptable to you, the American people.
As I said on this stage two years ago, I believe in the power of the free market. I believe in a
strong financial sector that helps people to raise capital and get loans and invest their
savings. That’s part of what has made America what it is. But a free market was never
meant to be a free license to take whatever you can get, however you can get it. That’s what
happened too often in the years leading up to this crisis. Some -- and let me be clear, not all
-- but some on Wall Street forgot that behind every dollar traded or leveraged there’s family
looking to buy a house, or pay for an education, open a business, save for retirement. What
happens on Wall Street has real consequences across the country, across our economy.
I’ve spoken before about the need to build a new foundation for economic growth in the 21st
century. And given the importance of the financial sector, Wall Street reform is an absolutely
essential part of that foundation. Without it, our house will continue to sit on shifting sands,
and our families, businesses, and the global economy will be vulnerable to future crises.
That’s why I feel so strongly that we need to enact a set of updated, commonsense rules to
ensure accountability on Wall Street and to protect consumers in our financial system.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, here’s the good news: A comprehensive plan to achieve these reforms has already
passed the House of Representatives. A Senate version is currently being debated, drawing
on ideas from Democrats and Republicans. Both bills represent significant improvement on
the flawed rules that we have in place today, despite the furious effort of industry lobbyists to
shape this legislation to their special interests.
And for those of you in the financial sector I'm sure that some of these lobbyists work for you
and they’re doing what they are being paid to do. But I’m here today specifically -- when I
speak to the titans of industry here -- because I want to urge you to join us, instead of
fighting us in this effort. I’m here because I believe that these reforms are, in the end, not
only in the best interest of our country, but in the best interest of the financial sector. And
I’m here to explain what reform will look like, and why it matters.
Now, first, the bill being considered in the Senate would create what we did not have before,
and that is a way to protect the financial system and the broader economy and American
taxpayers in the event that a large financial firm begins to fail. If there’s a Lehmans or an
AIG, how can we respond in a way that doesn’t force taxpayers to pick up the tab or,
alternatively, could bring down the whole system.
In an ordinary local bank when it approaches insolvency, we’ve got a process, an orderly
process through the FDIC, that ensures that depositors are protected, maintains confidence in
the banking system, and it works. Customers and taxpayers are protected and owners and
management lose their equity. But we don’t have that kind of process designed to contain the
failure of a Lehman Brothers or any of the largest and most interconnected financial firms in
our country.
That’s why, when this crisis began, crucial decisions about what would happen to some of the
world’s biggest companies -- companies employing tens of thousands of people and holding
hundreds of billions of dollars in assets -- had to take place in hurried discussions in the
middle of the night. And that’s why, to save the entire economy from an even worse
catastrophe, we had to deploy taxpayer dollars. Now, much of that money has now been paid
back and my administration has proposed a fee to be paid by large financial firms to recover
all the money, every dime, because the American people should never have been put in that
position in the first place.
But this is why we need a system to shut these firms down with the least amount of collateral
damage to innocent people and innocent businesses. And from the start, I’ve insisted that the
financial industry, not taxpayers, shoulder the costs in the event that a large financial
company should falter. The goal is to make certain that taxpayers are never again on the
hook because a firm is deemed “too big to fail.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, there’s a legitimate debate taking place about how best to ensure taxpayers are held
harmless in this process. And that’s a legitimate debate, and I encourage that debate. But
what’s not legitimate is to suggest that somehow the legislation being proposed is going to
encourage future taxpayer bailouts, as some have claimed. That makes for a good sound
bite, but it’s not factually accurate. It is not true. In fact, the system as it stands -- the
system as it stands is what led to a series of massive, costly taxpayer bailouts. And it’s only
with reform that we can avoid a similar outcome in the future. In other words, a vote for
reform is a vote to put a stop to taxpayer-funded bailouts. That’s the truth. End of story.
And nobody should be fooled in this debate.
By the way, these changes have the added benefit of creating incentives within the industry to
ensure that no one company can ever threaten to bring down the whole economy.
To that end, the bill would also enact what’s known as the Volcker Rule -- and there’s a tall
guy sitting in the front row here, Paul Volcker -- who we named it after. And it does
something very simple: It places some limits on the size of banks and the kinds of risks that
banking institutions can take. This will not only safeguard our system against crises, this will
also make our system stronger and more competitive by instilling confidence here at home
and across the globe. Markets depend on that confidence. Part of what led to the turmoil of
the past two years was that in the absence of clear rules and sound practices, people didn’t
trust that our system was one in which it was safe to invest or lend. As we’ve seen, that
harms all of us.
So by enacting these reforms, we’ll help ensure that our financial system -- and our economy
-- continues to be the envy of the world. That’s the first thing, making sure that we can wind
down one firm if it gets into trouble without bringing the whole system down or forcing
taxpayers to fund a bailout.
Number two, reform would bring new transparency to many financial markets. As you know,
part of what led to this crisis was firms like AIG and others who were making huge and risky
bets, using derivatives and other complicated financial instruments, in ways that defied
accountability, or even common sense. In fact, many practices were so opaque, so confusing,
so complex that the people inside the firms didn’t understand them, much less those who
were charged with overseeing them. They weren’t fully aware of the massive bets that were
being placed. That’s what led Warren Buffett to describe derivatives that were bought and
sold with little oversight as “financial weapons of mass destruction.” That’s what he called
them. And that’s why reform will rein in excess and help ensure that these kinds of
transactions take place in the light of day.
Now, there’s been a great deal of concern about these changes. So I want to reiterate: There
is a legitimate role for these financial instruments in our economy. They can help allay risk
and spur investment. And there are a lot of companies that use these instruments to that
legitimate end -- they are managing exposure to fluctuating prices or currencies, fluctuating
markets.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
For example, a business might hedge against rising oil prices by buying a financial product to
secure stable fuel costs, so an airlines might have an interest in locking in a decent price.
That’s how markets are supposed to work. The problem is these markets operated in the
shadows of our economy, invisible to regulators, invisible to the public. So reckless practices
were rampant. Risks accrued until they threatened our entire financial system.
And that’s why these reforms are designed to respect legitimate activities but prevent reckless
risk taking. That’s why we want to ensure that financial products like standardized derivatives
are traded out in the open, in the full view of businesses, investors, and those charged with
oversight.
And I was encouraged to see a Republican senator join with Democrats this week in moving
forward on this issue. That's a good sign. That's a good sign. For without action, we’ll
continue to see what amounts to highly-leveraged, loosely-monitored gambling in our financial
system, putting taxpayers and the economy in jeopardy. And the only people who ought to
fear the kind of oversight and transparency that we're proposing are those whose conduct will
fail this scrutiny.
Third, this plan would enact the strongest consumer financial protections ever. And that's
absolutely necessary because this financial crisis wasn’t just the result of decisions made in
the executive suites on Wall Street; it was also the result of decisions made around kitchen
tables across America, by folks who took on mortgages and credit cards and auto loans. And
while it’s true that many Americans took on financial obligations that they knew or should
have known they could not have afforded, millions of others were, frankly, duped. They were
misled by deceptive terms and conditions, buried deep in the fine print.
And while a few companies made out like bandits by exploiting their customers, our entire
economy was made more vulnerable. Millions of people have now lost their homes. Tens of
millions more have lost value in their homes. Just about every sector of our economy has felt
the pain, whether you’re paving driveways in Arizona, or selling houses in Ohio, or you're
doing home repairs in California, or you’re using your home equity to start a small business in
Florida.
That’s why we need to give consumers more protection and more power in our financial
system. This is not about stifling competition, stifling innovation; it’s just the opposite. With
a dedicated agency setting ground rules and looking out for ordinary people in our financial
system, we will empower consumers with clear and concise information when they’re making
financial decisions. So instead of competing to offer confusing products, companies will
compete the old-fashioned way, by offering better products. And that will mean more choices
for consumers, more opportunities for businesses, and more stability in our financial system.
And unless your business model depends on bilking people, there is little to fear from these
new rules.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Number four, the last key component of reform. These Wall Street reforms will give
shareholders new power in the financial system. They will get what we call a say on pay, a
voice with respect to the salaries and bonuses awarded to top executives. And the SEC will
have the authority to give shareholders more say in corporate elections, so that investors and
pension holders have a stronger role in determining who manages the company in which
they’ve placed their savings.
Now, Americans don’t begrudge anybody for success when that success is earned. But when
we read in the past, and sometimes in the present, about enormous executive bonuses at
firms -- even as they’re relying on assistance from taxpayers or they’re taking huge risks that
threaten the system as a whole or their company is doing badly -- it offends our fundamental
values.
Not only that, some of the salaries and bonuses that we’ve seen creates perverse incentives
to take reckless risks that contributed to the crisis. It’s what helped lead to a relentless focus
on a company’s next quarter, to the detriment of its next year or its next decade. And it led
to a situation in which folks with the most to lose -- stock and pension holders -- had the least
to say in the process. And that has to change.
Let me close by saying this. I have laid out a set of Wall Street reforms. These are reforms
that would put an end to taxpayer bailouts; that would bring complex financial dealings out of
the shadows; that would protect consumers; and that would give shareholders more power in
the financial system. But let’s face it, we also need reform in Washington. And the debate -the debate over these changes is a perfect example.
I mean, we have seen battalions of financial industry lobbyists descending on Capitol Hill,
firms spending millions to influence the outcome of this debate. We’ve seen misleading
arguments and attacks that are designed not to improve the bill but to weaken or to kill it.
We’ve seen a bipartisan process buckle under the weight of these withering forces, even as
we‘ve produced a proposal that by all accounts is a commonsense, reasonable, non-ideological
approach to target the root problems that led to the turmoil in our financial sector and
ultimately in our entire economy.
So we’ve seen business as usual in Washington, but I believe we can and must put this kind of
cynical politics aside. We’ve got to put an end to it. That’s why I’m here today. That’s why
I’m here today.
And to those of you who are in the financial sector, let me say this, we will not always see eye
to eye. We will not always agree. But that doesn’t mean that we’ve got to choose between
two extremes. We do not have to choose between markets that are unfettered by even
modest protections against crisis, or markets that are stymied by onerous rules that suppress
enterprise and innovation. That is a false choice. And we need no more proof than the crisis
that we’ve just been through.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
You see, there has always been a tension between the desire to allow markets to function
without interference and the absolute necessity of rules to prevent markets from falling out of
kilter. But managing that tension, one that we’ve debated since the founding of this nation, is
what has allowed our country to keep up with a changing world. For in taking up this debate,
in figuring out how to apply well-worn principles with each new age, we ensure that we don’t
tip too far one way or the other -- that our democracy remains as dynamic and our economy
remains as dynamic as it has in the past. So, yes, this debate can be contentious. It can be
heated. But in the end it serves only to make our country stronger. It has allowed us to
adapt and to thrive.
And I read a report recently that I think fairly illustrates this point. It’s from Time Magazine.
I’m going to quote: “Through the great banking houses of Manhattan last week ran wild-eyed
alarm. Big bankers stared at one another in anger and astonishment. A bill just passed…
would rivet upon their institutions what they considered a monstrous system… such a system,
they felt, would not only rob them of their pride of profession but would reduce all U.S.
banking to its lowest level.” That appeared in Time Magazine in June of 1933. The system
that caused so much consternation, so much concern was the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation, also known as the FDIC, an institution that has successfully secured the deposits
of generations of Americans.
In the end, our system only works -- our markets are only free -- when there are basic
safeguards that prevent abuse, that check excesses, that ensure that it is more profitable to
play by the rules than to game the system. And that is what the reforms we’ve been
proposing are designed to achieve -- no more, no less. And because that is how we will
ensure that our economy works for consumers, that it works for investors, and that it works
for financial institutions -- in other words, that it works for all of us -- that’s why we’re
working so hard to get this stuff passed.
This is the central lesson not only of this crisis but of our history. It’s what I said when I
spoke here two years ago. Because ultimately, there is no dividing line between Main Street
and Wall Street. We will rise or we will fall together as one nation. And that is why I urge all
of you to join me. I urge all of you to join me, to join those who are seeking to pass these
commonsense reforms. And for those of you in the financial industry, I urge you to join me
not only because it is in the interest of your industry, but also because it’s in the interest of
your country.
Thank you so much. God bless you, and God bless the United States of America. Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329697" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Regina_Benjamin_Nomination.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Regina%20Benjamin%20Nomination.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Nomination of Regina M. Benjamin for U.S. Surgeon General
delivered 13 July 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning, everybody. Before I introduce America's next Surgeon General, I'd like to say
a few words about our ongoing efforts to reform the health care system that she will help
oversee.
We are now closer to the goal of health care reform than we have ever been. Over the last
several weeks, key committees in the House and the Senate have made important and
unprecedented progress on a plan that will lower costs, provide better care for patients, and
curb the worst practices of the insurance companies. It's a plan that will not add to our deficit
over the next decade. Let me repeat that: It is a plan that will not add to our deficit over the
next decade -- and eventually will help lower our deficit by slowing the skyrocketing cost of
Medicare and Medicaid.
Even though we are close, I've got no illusions that it's going to be easy to get over the finish
line. There are going to be more debates and more disagreements before all is said and
done. But health care reform must be done.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I know there are those who believe we should wait to solve this problem, or take a more
incremental approach, or simply do nothing. But this is the kind of criticism we heard when
the country tried to pass Medicare, a program that is now providing quality care to
generations of American seniors. It's the kind of criticism we heard when we tried to pass the
Children's Health Insurance Program, which has provided quality care and coverage to millions
of kids. It's the same Washington thinking that has ignored big challenges and put off tough
decisions for decades. And it is precisely that kind of small thinking that has led us into the
current predicament.
So make no mistake: The status quo on health care is no longer an option for the United
States of America. If we step back from this challenge right now, we will leave our children a
legacy of debt -- a future of crushing costs that bankrupt our families, our businesses, and
because we will have done nothing to bring down the cost of Medicare and Medicaid, will crush
our government. Premiums will continue to skyrocket -- placing what amounts to another tax
on American families struggling to pay bills. The insurance companies and special interests
that have killed reform in the past will only continue to benefit even more -- and they'll
continue to deny coverage to Americans with pre-existing medical conditions. People will
continue to lose health insurance just because they lose their job or they change jobs.
This is a future that we cannot afford. This country can't afford to have health care premiums
rise three times faster than people's wages, as they did over the last decade. We can't afford
14,000 Americans losing their health care every single day. We can't afford a future where
our government will eventually spend more on Medicare and Medicaid than what we spend on
everything else.
And during the campaign, I promised health care reform that would control costs, expand
coverage, and ensure choice. And I promised that Americans making $250,000 a year or less
would not pay more in taxes. These are promises that we're keeping as reform moves
forward.
This is no longer a problem we can wait to fix. This is about who we are as a country. Health
care reform is about every family's health, but it's also about the health of the economy.
So I just want to put everybody on notice, because there was a lot of chatter during the week
that I was gone: We are going to get this done. Inaction is not an option. And for those naysayers and cynics who think that this is not going to happen, don't bet against us. We are
going to make this thing happen, because the American people desperately need it.
And even those who are satisfied with their health care right now, they understand that if
premiums keep on doubling and if employers keep on shedding health insurance because it's
unsustainable and if you look at the trajectory of where Medicare and Medicaid are going, then
inaction will create the biggest crisis of all.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so I understand people are a little nervous and a little scared about making change. The
muscles in this town to bring about big changes are a little atrophied, but we're whipping folks
back into shape. We are going to get this done. And if there's anyone who understands the
urgency of meeting this challenge in a personal and powerful way, it's the woman who will
become our nation's next Surgeon General, Dr. Regina Benjamin.
The list of qualifications that make Dr. Benjamin an outstanding candidate to be America's
leading spokesperson on issues of public health are long indeed. She was in the second class
at Morehouse School of Medicine and went on to earn an MD from the University of Alabama
at Birmingham and an MBA from Tulane. She served as Associate Dean for Rural Health at
the University of South Alabama College of Medicine, and in 1995, she became the first
physician under 40 and the first African American woman to be named to the American
Medical Association's Board of Trustees. In 2002, she became President of Alabama's State
Medical Association. And she has received numerous awards and recognitions, including the
MacArthur Genius Award. It's very impressive.
But of all these achievements and experience, none has been more pertinent to today's
challenges or closer to Regina's heart than the rural health clinic that she has built and rebuilt
in Bayou La Batre -- did I say that right? Well, tell me how to say it.
Dr. Benjamin: Bayou La Batre.
President Obama: Bayou La Batre. That's in Alabama, people.
Bayou La Batre is a rural town of about 2,500 people. It's a shrimping town, where a lot of
folks work for themselves, scrape by, and can't usually afford health insurance. And by the
way, Dr. Benjamin, while we were talking in the Oval Office, described for me the
demographics of this town are actually very interesting, because you've got whites, blacks,
and Asians in this community. There are a lot of Laotians and Cambodians who have moved
there and are part of this shrimping town, so it's a diverse but very poor rural community.
And like so many other rural communities, doctors and hospitals are hard to come by. And
that's why, even though she could have left the state to make more money as a specialist or
as a doctor in a wealthier community, Regina Benjamin returned to Alabama and opened a
small clinic in Bayou La Batre.
When people couldn't pay, she didn't charge them. When the clinic wasn't making money,
she didn't take a salary for herself. When Hurricane George destroyed the clinic in 1998, she
made house calls to all her patients while it was rebuilt. When Hurricane Katrina destroyed it
again and left most of her town homeless, she mortgaged her house and maxed out her credit
cards to rebuild that clinic for a second time. She tended to those who had been wounded in
the storm, and when folks needed medicine, she asked the pharmacist to send the bill her
way.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
And when Regina's clinic was about to open for the third time, and a fire burned it to the
ground before it could serve the first patient, well, you can guess what Dr. Benjamin did.
With help from her community, she is rebuilding it again. One disabled patient brought her an
envelope with $20 inside. Another elderly man said simply, "Maybe I can help. I got a
hammer."
For nearly two decades, Dr. Regina Benjamin has seen in a very personal way what is broken
about our health care system. She's seen an increasing number of patients who've had health
insurance their entire lives suddenly lose it because they lost their jobs or because it's simply
become too expensive. She's been a relentless promoter of prevention and wellness
programs, having treated too many costly and -- diseases and complications that didn't have
to happen. And she's witnessed the shortage of primary care physicians in the rural and
underserved areas where she works.
But for all that she's seen and all the tremendous obstacles that she has overcome, Regina
Benjamin also represents what's best about health care in America -- doctors and nurses who
give and care and sacrifice for the sake of their patients; those Americans who would do
anything to heal a fellow citizen. Through floods and fires and severe want, Regina Benjamin
has refused to give up. Her patients have refused to give up. And when we were talking in
the Oval Office, she said: The one thing I want to do is make sure that this Surgeon General's
Office gives voice to patients, that patients have a seat at the table; somebody is advocating
for them and speaking for them.
And now we in Washington and across America have to refuse to give up on the goal of health
care that is affordable and accessible for every last one of us. We don't have to deal with
hurricanes and we don't have to deal with floods and we don't have to deal with fires; all we
have to do is pass a bill to make sure that the American people have a decent shot at getting
the kind of choice and high-quality health care that's affordable.
And I know that Dr. Benjamin is going to help us get there as the next Surgeon General. And
I am truly honored to nominate her for that post, and Secretary Sebelius is equally excited,
even though she's just standing here.
With that, let me introduce the next Surgeon General of the United States, Dr. Regina
Benjamin.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329901" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Rio_de_Janeiro.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Rio%20de%20Janeiro.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the People of Rio de Janeiro
delivered 20 March 2011, Teatro Municipal, Rio de Janeiro

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

President Obama: Hello, Rio de Janeiro!
Audience: Hello!
Audience Member: Many welcomes!
President Obama: Alo! Cidade! Maravilhoso! Boa tarde, todo o povo brasileiro.
Since the moment we arrived, the people of this nation have graciously shown my family the
warmth and generosity of the Brazilian spirit. Obrigado. Thank you. And I want to give a
special thanks to all of you for being here, because I've been told that there’s a Vasco football
game coming. Botafogo -- So I know that -- I realize Brazilians don’t give up their soccer very
easily.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, one of my earliest impressions of Brazil was a movie I saw with my mother as a very
young child, a movie called Black Orpheus, that is set in the favelas of Rio during Carnival.
And my mother loved that movie, with its singing and dancing against the backdrop of the
beautiful green hills. And it first premiered as a play right here in Teatro Municipal. That's my
understanding.
And my mother is gone now, but she would have never imagined that her son’s first trip to
Brazil would be as President of the United States. She would have never imagined that. And I
never imagined that this country would be even more beautiful than it was in the movie. You
are, as Jorge Ben-Jor sang, “A tropical country, blessed by God, and beautiful by nature.”
I’ve seen that beauty in the cascading hillsides, in your endless miles of sand and ocean, and
in the vibrant, diverse gatherings of brasileiros who have come here today.
And we have a wonderfully mixed group. We have Cariocas and Paulistas, Baianas,
Mineiros. We’ve got men and women from the cities to the interior, and so many young
people here who are the great future of this great nation.
Now, yesterday, I met with your wonderful new President, Dilma Rousseff, and talked about
how we can strengthen the partnership between our governments. But today, I want to
speak directly to the Brazilian people about how we can strengthen the friendship between our
nations. I’ve come here to share some ideas because I want to speak of the values that we
share, the hopes that we have in common, and the difference that we can make together.
When you think about it, the journeys of the United States of America and Brazil began in
similar ways. Our lands are rich with God’s creation, home to ancient and indigenous
peoples. From overseas, the Americas were discovered by men who sought a New World, and
settled by pioneers who pushed westward, across vast frontiers. We became colonies claimed
by distant crowns, but soon declared our independence. We then welcomed waves of
immigrants to our shores, and eventually after a long struggle, we cleansed the stain of
slavery from our land.
The United States was the first nation to recognize Brazil’s independence, and set up a
diplomatic outpost in this country. The first head of state to visit the United States was the
leader of Brazil, Dom Pedro II. In the Second World War, our brave men and women fought
side-by-side for freedom. And after the war, both of our nations struggled to achieve the full
blessings of liberty.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
On the streets of the United States, men and women marched and bled and some died so that
every citizen could enjoy the same freedoms and opportunities -- no matter what you looked
like, no matter where you came from.
In Brazil, you fought against two decades of dictatorships for the same right to be heard -–
the right to be free from fear, free from want. And yet, for years, democracy and
development were slow to take hold, and millions suffered as a result.
But I come here today because those days have passed. Brazil today is a flourishing
democracy -- a place where people are free to speak their mind and choose their leaders;
where a poor kid from Pernambuco can rise from the floors of a copper factory to the highest
office in Brazil.
Over the last decade, the progress made by the Brazilian people has inspired the world. More
than half of this nation is now considered middle class. Millions have been lifted from
poverty. For the first time, hope is returning to places where fear had long prevailed. I saw
this today when I visited Cidade de Deus -- the City of God.
It isn’t just the new security efforts and social programs -- and I want to congratulate the
mayor and the governor for the excellent work that they’re doing. But it’s also a change in
attitudes. As one young resident said, “People have to look at favelas not with pity, but as a
source of presidents and lawyers and doctors, artists, [and] people with solutions.”
With each passing day, Brazil is a country with more solutions. In the global community,
you’ve gone from relying on the help of other nations, to now helping fight poverty and
disease wherever they exist. You play an important role in the global institutions that protect
our common security and promote our common prosperity. And you will welcome the world
to your shores when the World Cup and the Olympic games come to Rio de Janeiro.
Now, you may be aware that this city was not my first choice for the Summer Olympics. But
if the games could not be held in Chicago, then there’s no place I’d rather see them than right
here in Rio. And I intend to come back in 2016 to watch what happens.
For so long, Brazil was a nation brimming with potential but held back by politics, both at
home and abroad. For so long, you were called a country of the future, told to wait for a
better day that was always just around the corner.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Meus amigos, that day has finally come. And this is a country of the future no more. The
people of Brazil should know that the future has arrived. It is here now. And it’s time to seize
it.
Now, our countries have not always agreed on everything. And just like many nations, we’re
going to have our differences of opinion going forward. But I’m here to tell you that the
American people don’t just recognize Brazil’s success -- we root for Brazil’s success. As you
confront the many challenges you still face at home as well as abroad, let us stand together -not as senior and junior partners, but as equal partners, joined in a spirit of mutual interest
and mutual respect, committed to the progress that I know that we can make together. I'm
confident we can do it.
Together we can advance our common prosperity. As two of the world’s largest economies,
we worked side by side during the financial crisis to restore growth and confidence. And to
keep our economies growing, we know what’s necessary in both of our nations. We need a
skilled, educated workforce -- which is why American and Brazilian companies have pledged to
help increase student exchanges between our two nations.
We need a commitment to innovation and technology -- which is why we've agreed to expand
cooperation between our scientists, researchers, and engineers.
We need world-class infrastructure -- which is why American companies want to help you
build and prepare this city for Olympic success.
In a global economy, the United States and Brazil should expand trade, expand investment,
so that we create new jobs and new opportunities in both of our nations. And that's why
we're working to break down barriers to doing business. That's why we're building closer
relationships between our workers and our entrepreneurs.
Together we can also promote energy security and protect our beautiful planet. As two
nations that are committed to greener economies, we know that the ultimate solution to our
energy challenges lies in clean and renewable power. And that’s why half the vehicles in this
country can run on biofuels, and most of your electricity comes from hydropower. That’s also
why, in the United States, we’ve jumpstarted a new clean energy industry. And that’s why the
United States and Brazil are creating new energy partnerships -- to share technologies, create
new jobs, and leave our children a world that is cleaner and safer than we found it.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Together, our two nations can also help defend our citizens’ security. We’re working together
to stop narco-trafficking that has destroyed too many lives in this hemisphere. We seek the
goal of a world without nuclear weapons. We’re working together to enhance nuclear security
across our hemisphere. From Africa to Haiti, we are working side by side to combat the
hunger, disease, and corruption that can rot a society and rob human beings of dignity and
opportunity. And as two countries that have been greatly enriched by our African heritage, it’s
absolutely vital that we are working with the continent of Africa to help lift it up. That is
something that we should be committed to doing together.
Today, we’re both also delivering assistance and support to the Japanese people at their
greatest hour of need. The ties that bind our nations to Japan are strong. In Brazil, you are
home to the largest Japanese population outside of Japan. In the United States, we forged an
alliance of more than 60 years. The people of Japan are some of our closest friends, and we
will pray with them, and stand with them, and rebuild with them until this crisis has passed.
In these and other efforts to promote peace and prosperity throughout the world, the United
States and Brazil are partners not just because we share history, not just because we’re in the
same hemisphere; not just because we share ties of commerce and culture, but also because
we share certain enduring values and ideals.
We both believe in the power and promise of democracy. We believe that no other form of
government is more effective at promoting growth and prosperity that reaches every human
being -- not just some but all. And those who argue otherwise, those who argue that
democracy stands in the way of economic progress, they must contend with the example of
Brazil.
The millions in this country who have climbed from poverty into the middle class, they could
not do so in a closed economy controlled by the state. You’re prospering as a free people with
open markets and a government that answers to its citizens. You’re proving that the goal of
social justice and social inclusion can be best achieved through freedom -– that democracy is
the greatest partner of human progress.
We also believe that in nations as big and diverse as ours, shaped by generations of
immigrants from every race and faith and background, democracy offers the best hope that
every citizen is treated with dignity and respect, and that we can resolve our differences
peacefully, that we find strength in our diversity.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We know that experience in the United States. We know how important it is to be able to
work together -- even when we often disagree. I understand that our chosen form of
government can be slow and messy. We understand that democracy must be constantly
strengthened and perfected over time. We know that different nations take different paths to
realize the promise of democracy. And we understand that no one nation should impose its
will on another.
But we also know that there’s certain aspirations shared by every human being: We all seek
to be free. We all seek to be heard. We all yearn to live without fear or discrimination. We
all yearn to choose how we are governed. And we all want to shape our own destiny. These
are not American ideals or Brazilian ideals. These are not Western ideals. These are universal
rights, and we must support them everywhere.
Today, we are seeing the struggle for these rights unfold across the Middle East and North
Africa. We’ve seen a revolution born out of a yearning for basic human dignity in Tunisia.
We’ve seen peaceful protestors pour into Tahrir Square -- men and women, young and old,
Christian and Muslim. We’ve seen the people of Libya take a courageous stand against a
regime determined to brutalize its own citizens. Across the region, we’ve seen young people
rise up -- a new generation demanding the right to determine their own future.
From the beginning, we have made clear that the change they seek must be driven by their
own people. But for our two nations, for the United States and Brazil, two nations who have
struggled over many generations to perfect our own democracies, the United States and Brazil
know that the future of the Arab World will be determined by its people.
No one can say for certain how this change will end, but I do know that change is not
something that we should fear. When young people insist that the currents of history are on
the move, the burdens of the past can be washed away. When men and women peacefully
claim their human rights, our own common humanity is enhanced. Wherever the light of
freedom is lit, the world becomes a brighter place.
That is the example of Brazil. That is the example of Brazil. Brazil -- a country that shows
that a dictatorship can become a thriving democracy. Brazil -- a country that shows
democracy delivers both freedom and opportunity to its people. Brazil -- a country that shows
how a call for change that starts in the streets can transform a city, transform a country,
transform a world.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Decades ago, it was directly outside of this theater, in Cinelandia Square, where the call for
change was heard in Brazil. Students and artists and political leaders of all stripes would
gather with banners that said, “Down with the dictatorship. The people in power.” Their
democratic aspirations would not be fulfilled until years later, but one of the young Brazilians
in that generation’s movement would go on to forever change the history of this country.
A child of an immigrant, her participation in the movement led to her arrest and her
imprisonment, her torture at the hands of her own government. And so she knows what it’s
like to live without the most basic human rights that so many are fighting for today. But she
also knows what it is to persevere. She knows what it is to overcome -- because today that
woman is your nation’s president, Dilma Rousseff.
Our two nations face many challenges. On the road ahead, we will certainly encounter many
obstacles. But in the end, it is our history that gives us hope for a better tomorrow. It is the
knowledge that the men and women who came before us have triumphed over greater trials
than these -- that we live in places where ordinary people have done extraordinary things.
It’s that sense of possibility, that sense of optimism that first drew pioneers to this New
World. It’s what binds our nations together as partners in this new century. It’s why we
believe, in the words of Paul Coelho, one of your most famous writers, “With the strength of
our love and our will, we can change our destiny, as well as the destiny of many others.”
Muito obrigado. Thank you. And may God bless our two nations. Thank you very much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329844" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Robert_Bryd_Eulogy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Robert%20Bryd%20Eulogy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Eulogy Remarks at the Memorial Service for Robert Byrd
Delivered 2 July 2010, West Virginia State Capitol, Charleston, West Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

To Mona and Marjorie, and to Senator Byrd’s entire family, including those adorable great
granddaughters that I had a chance to meet -- Michelle and I offer you our deepest
sympathies.
To Senator Byrd’s friends, including the Speaker of the House, the Majority Leader, the
Republican Leader, President Clinton, Vice President Biden, Vicki Kennedy, Nick Rahall and all
the previous speakers; Senator Rockefeller for the outstanding work that you’ve done for the
state of West Virginia; to his larger family -- the people of West Virginia -- I want you all to
know that all America shares your loss. May we all find comfort in a verse of Scripture that
reminds me of our dear friend: “The time of my departure has come. I have fought the good
fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.”
It’s interesting that you’ve heard that passage from several speakers now, because it
embodies somebody who knew how to run a good and long race, and somebody who knew
how to keep the faith -- with his state, with his family, with his country and his Constitution.
Years from now, when I think of the man we memorialize today, I’ll remember him as he was
when I came to know him, his white hair full like a mane, his gait steadied with a cane.
Determined to make the most of every last breath, the distinguished gentleman from West
Virginia could be found at his desk until the very end, doing the people’s business, delivering
soul-stirring speeches, a hint of the Appalachians in his voice, stabbing the air with his finger,
fiery as ever, years into his 10th decade.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
He was a Senate icon. He was a Party leader. He was an elder statesman. And he was my
friend. That’s how I’ll remember him.
Today we remember the path he climbed to such extraordinary peaks. Born Cornelius Calvin
Sale, Jr. -- Corny, he joked, for short -- his mother lost her life in the Great Influenza
Pandemic of 1918. From the aunt and uncle who raised him, amid West Virginia’s coal camps,
he gained not only his Byrd name but a reverence for God Almighty, a love of learning that
was nurtured at Mark Twain School. And there he met Erma, his sweetheart for over 70
years, by whose side he will now rest for eternity.
Unable to afford college, he did what he could to get by, finding work as a gas station
attendant, a produce salesman, a meat-cutter, and a welder in the shipyards of Baltimore and
Tampa during World War II. Returning home to West Virginia after the war, he ran for the
state House of Delegates, using his fiddle case as a briefcase, the better to stand out on the
stump.
Before long, he ran for Congress, serving in the House before jumping over to the Senate,
where he was elected nine times, held almost every leadership role imaginable, and proved as
capable of swaying others as standing alone, marking a row of milestones along the way.
Longest-serving member of Congress. Nearly 19,000 votes cast. Not a single loss at the polls
-- a record that speaks to the bond that he had with you, the people of his state.
Transplanted to Washington, his heart remained here, in West Virginia, in the place that
shaped him, with the people he loved. His heart belonged to you. Making life better here was
his only agenda. Giving you hope, he said, was his greatest achievement. Hope in the form
of new jobs and industries. Hope in the form of black lung benefits and union protections.
Hope through roads and research centers, schools and scholarships, health clinics and
industrial parks that bear his name.
His early rival and late friend, Ted Kennedy, used to joke about campaigning in West Virginia.
When his bus broke down, Ted got hold of the highway patrol, who asked where he was. And
he said, “I’m on Robert Byrd highway.” And the dispatcher said, “Which one?”
It’s a life that immeasurably improved the lives of West Virginians. Of course, Robert Byrd
was a deeply religious man, a Christian. And so he understood that our lives are marked by
sins as well as virtues, failures as well as success, weakness as well as strength. We know
there are things he said -- and things he did -- that he came to regret. I remember talking
about that the first time I visited with him. He said, “There are things I regretted in my
youth. You may know that.” And I said, “None of us are absent some regrets, Senator.
That’s why we enjoy and seek the grace of God.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And as I reflect on the full sweep of his 92 years, it seems to me that his life bent towards
justice. Like the Constitution he tucked in his pocket, like our nation itself, Robert Byrd
possessed that quintessential American quality, and that is a capacity to change, a capacity to
learn, a capacity to listen, a capacity to be made more perfect.
Over his nearly six decades in our Capitol, he came to be seen as the very embodiment of the
Senate, chronicling its history in four volumes that he gave to me just as he gave to President
Clinton. I, too, read it. I was scared he was going to quiz me.
But as I soon discovered, his passion for the Senate’s past, his mastery of even its most
arcane procedures, it wasn’t an obsession with the trivial or the obscure. It reflected a
profoundly noble impulse, a recognition of a basic truth about this country that we are not a
nation of men, we are a nation of laws. Our way of life rests on our democratic institutions.
Precisely because we are fallible, it falls to each of us to safeguard these institutions, even
when it’s inconvenient, and pass on our republic more perfect than before.
Considering the vast learning of this self-taught Senator -- his speeches sprinkled with the
likes of Cicero and Shakespeare and Jefferson -- it seems fitting to close with one of his
favorite passages in literature, a passage from Moby Dick:
“And there is a Catskill eagle in some souls that can alike dive down into the blackest gorges,
and soar out of them again and become invisible in the sunny spaces. And even if he forever
flies within the gorge, that gorge is in the mountains; so that even in his lowest swoop the
mountain eagle is still higher than any other bird upon the plain, even though they soar.”
Robert Byrd was a mountain eagle, and his lowest swoop was still higher than the other birds
upon the plain.
May God bless Robert C. Byrd. May he be welcomed kindly by the righteous Judge. And may
his spirit soar forever like a Catskill eagle, high above the Heavens.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329513" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Rosa_Parks.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Rosa%20Parks.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech Honoring the Life of Rosa Parks
delivered 25 October 2005, Washington, D.C.

[AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio]

Mr. President, today the nation mourns a genuine American hero. As most of you know, Rosa
Parks died yesterday in her home in Detroit. Through her courage, and by her example, Rosa
Parks helped lay the foundation for a country that could begin to live up to its creed.
Her life and her brave actions reminded each and every one of us of our personal
responsibilities to stand up for what's right and the central truth of the American experience
that our greatness as a nation derives from seemingly ordinary people doing extraordinary
things.
Rosa Parks' life was a lesson in perseverance. As a child, she grew up listening to the Ku Klux
Klan ride by her house, fearing that her house would be burned down. In her small hometown
in Alabama, she attended a one-room school for African-American children that only went
through the sixth grade. When she moved to Montgomery, Alabama, to continue her
schooling, she was forced to clean classrooms after school to pay her tuition. Although she
attended Alabama State Teachers College, Rosa Parks would late -- later make her living as a
seamstress and housekeeper.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But she didn't accept that her opportunities were limited to sewing clothes or cleaning houses.
In her 40s, Rosa Parks was appointed secretary of the Montgomery branch of the NAACP and
was active in voter registration drives with the Montgomery Voter[s'] League. In the summer
of 1955, she attended the Highlander Folk School, where she took classes in workers' rights
and racial equality. Well before she made the headlines across the country, she was a highly
respected member of the Montgomery community and a committed member of the civil rights
effort.
Of course, her name became permanently etched in American history on December 1st, 1955,
when she was arrested for refusing to give up her seat to a white passenger on a Montgomery
bus. But what's not as well known is that it wasn't the first time Rosa Parks refused to
acquiesce to the Jim Crow system. The same bus driver1 who had her arrested, and had her
thrown off the bus that day, had done the same the year before when Rosa Parks refused to
give up her seat.2
Some schoolchildren are taught that Rosa Parks refused to give up her seat because her feet
were tired. But our nation's schoolbooks are only getting it half right. Ms. Parks once said:
"The only tired I was, was tired of giving in."3
This solitary act of civil disobedience became a call to action. Her arrest led to a then
relatively unknown pastor, Martin Luther King, Jr., to organize a bus boycott for the entire
Montgomery [bus] system. That boycott lasted 381 days and culminated in a landmark
Supreme Court decision finding that the city's segregation policies were unconstitutional.
This solitary act of civil disobedience was also the spark that ignited the beginning of the end
for segregation and inspired millions around the country and ultimately around the world to
get involved in the fight for racial equality.
Rosa Parks' persistence and determination did not end that day in Montgomery, nor did it end
with the passage of the Civil Rights Act and Voting Rights Act years later. She stayed active in
the NAACP and other civil rights groups for years. From 1965 to 1988, Ms. Parks continued
her public service by working for my good friend Congressman John Conyers. And in an
example of her low-key demeanor, her job in Congressman Conyers' office did not involve
appearances as a figurehead or celebrity; she helped homeless folks find housing.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
At the age of six -- At the age of 74, she opened the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for
Self-Development, which offers education and job training programs for disadvantaged youth.
And even into her 80s, Rosa Parks gave lectures and attended meetings with civil rights
groups.
At the age of 86, Rosa Parks' courage and fortitude was recognized by President Bill Clinton,
who awarded her the nation's highest honor for a civilian -- the Congressional Gold Medal.
As we honor the life of Rosa Parks, we should not limit our commemoration to lofty eulogies.
Instead, let us commit to carrying on her fight, one solitary act at a time, and ensure that her
passion continues to inspire as it did a half-century ago. That, in my view, is how we can best
thank her for her immense contributions to our country.
In closing, Mr. President, Rosa Parks once said:
As long as there is unemployment, war, crime and all the things that go to the infliction
of man's inhumanity to man, regardless -- there is much to be done, and people need
to work together.
Now that she's passed, it's up to us to make sure that her message is shared. For while we
will miss her cherished spirit, let's make sure to ensure that her legacy lives on in the heart of
the nation.
And Mr. President, as a personal note, I think it is fair to say that were it not for that quiet
moment of courage by Ms. Parks, I would not stand here before you today. I owe her great
thanks, as does the nation. She will be sorely missed.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.
1

James Blake

2
Reference error -- either by chronology or person. Ms. Parks did indeed have a prejudicial encounter with the bus driver, James Blake, but it
occurred some twelve years earlier. One year prior to Mr. Parks' 1955 Montgomery bus incident, Claudette Cloven became the first AfricanAmerican woman arrested for violating Montgomery's bus segregation law.

3

Parks, Rosa & Haskins, James. (1992). Rosa Parks: my story. New York: Dial Books. [via https://blog.oup.com/2010/12/rosa-parks/]

4

Widely attributed; original source unclear.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329868" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Salvatore_Giunta_Medal_of_Honor.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Salvatore%20Giunta%20Medal%20of%20Honor.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Awarding the Medal of Honor to Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta
delivered 16 November 2010, East Room, The White House

Good afternoon, everybody. Please be seated. On behalf of Michelle and myself, welcome to
the White House. Thank you, Chaplain Carver, for that beautiful invocation.
Of all the privileges that come with serving as President of the United States, I have none
greater than serving as Commander-in-Chief of the finest military that the world has ever
known. And of all the military decorations that a President and a nation can bestow, there is
none higher than the Medal of Honor.
Today is particularly special. Since the end of the Vietnam War, the Medal of Honor has been
awarded nine times for conspicuous gallantry in an ongoing or recent conflict. Sadly, our
nation has been unable to present this decoration to the recipients themselves, because each
gave his life -- his last full measure of devotion -- for our country. Indeed, as President, I
have presented the Medal of Honor three times -- and each time to the families of a fallen
hero.
Today, therefore, marks the first time in nearly 40 years that the recipient of the Medal of
Honor for an ongoing conflict has been able to come to the White House and accept this
recognition in person. It is my privilege to present our nation’s highest military decoration,
the Medal of Honor, to a soldier as humble as he is heroic: Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I’m going to go off-script here for a second and just say I really like this guy. I think
anybody -- we all just get a sense of people and who they are, and when you meet Sal and
you meet his family, you are just absolutely convinced that this is what America is all about.
And it just makes you proud. And so this is a joyous occasion for me -- something that I have
been looking forward to.
The Medal of Honor reflects the gratitude of an entire nation. So we are also joined here
today by several members of Congress, including both senators and several representatives
from Staff Sergeant Giunta’s home state of Iowa. We are also joined by leaders from across
my administration and the Department of Defense, including the Secretary of Defense, Robert
Gates; Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admiral Mike Mullen. Where’s Mike? There he is,
right there. Army Secretary John McHugh; and Chief of Staff of the Army, General George
Casey.
We are especially honored to be joined by Staff Sergeant Giunta’s fellow soldiers, his
teammates and brothers from Battle Company, 2d of the 503d of the 173d Airborne Brigade;
and several members of that rarest of fraternities that now welcomes him into its ranks -- the
Medal of Honor Society. Please give them a big round of applause.
We also welcome the friends and family who made Staff Sergeant Giunta into the man that he
is, including his lovely wife, Jenny; and his parents, Steven and Rosemary; as well as his
siblings, who are here. It was his mother, after all, who apparently taught him as a young
boy in small-town Iowa how to remove the screen from his bedroom window in case of fire.
What she didn’t know was that by teaching Sal how to jump from his bedroom and sneaking
off in the dead of night, she was unleashing a future paratrooper -- who would one day fight
in the rugged mountains of Afghanistan 7,000 miles away.
During the first of his two tours of duty in Afghanistan, Staff Sergeant Giunta was forced early
on to come to terms with the loss of comrades and friends. His team leader at the time gave
him a piece of advice: “You just try -- you just got to try to do everything you can when it’s
your time to do it.” You’ve just got to try to do everything you can when it’s your time to do
it.
Salvatore Giunta’s time came on October 25, 2007. He was a Specialist then, just 22 years
old.
Sal and his platoon were several days into a mission in the Korengal Valley -- the most
dangerous valley in northeast Afghanistan. The moon was full. The light it cast was enough
to travel by without using their night-vision goggles. With heavy gear on their backs, and air
support overhead, they made their way single file down a rocky ridge crest, along terrain so
steep that sliding was sometimes easier than walking.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
They hadn’t traveled a quarter mile before the silence was shattered. It was an ambush, so
close that the cracks of the guns and the whizz of the bullets were simultaneous. Tracer fire
hammered the ridge at hundreds of rounds per minute -- “more,” Sal said later, “than the
stars in the sky.”
The Apache gunships above saw it all, but couldn’t engage with the enemy so close to our
soldiers. The next platoon heard the shooting, but were too far away to join the fight in time.
And the two lead men were hit by enemy fire and knocked down instantly. When the third
was struck in the helmet and fell to the ground, Sal charged headlong into the wall of bullets
to pull him to safety behind what little cover there was. As he did, Sal was hit twice -- one
round slamming into his body armor, the other shattering a weapon slung across his back.
They were pinned down, and two wounded Americans still lay up ahead. So Sal and his
comrades regrouped and counterattacked. They threw grenades, using the explosions as
cover to run forward, shooting at the muzzle flashes still erupting from the trees. Then they
did it again. And again. Throwing grenades, charging ahead. Finally, they reached one of
their men. He’d been shot twice in the leg, but he had kept returning fire until his gun
jammed.
As another soldier tended to his wounds, Sal sprinted ahead, at every step meeting relentless
enemy fire with his own. He crested a hill alone, with no cover but the dust kicked up by the
storm of bullets still biting into the ground. There, he saw a chilling sight: the silhouettes of
two insurgents carrying the other wounded American away -- who happened to be one of Sal’s
best friends. Sal never broke stride. He leapt forward. He took aim. He killed one of the
insurgents and wounded the other, who ran off.
Sal found his friend alive, but badly wounded. Sal had saved him from the enemy -- now he
had to try to save his life. Even as bullets impacted all around him, Sal grabbed his friend by
the vest and dragged him to cover. For nearly half an hour, Sal worked to stop the bleeding
and help his friend breathe until the MEDEVAC arrived to lift the wounded from the ridge.
American gunships worked to clear the enemy from the hills. And with the battle over, First
Platoon picked up their gear and resumed their march through the valley. They continued
their mission.
It had been as intense and violent a firefight as any soldier will experience. By the time it was
finished, every member of First Platoon had shrapnel or a bullet hole in their gear. Five were
wounded. And two gave their lives: Sal’s friend, Sergeant Joshua C. Brennan, and the
platoon medic, Specialist Hugo V. Mendoza.
Now, the parents of Joshua and Hugo are here today. And I know that there are no words
that, even three years later, can ease the ache in your hearts or repay the debt that America
owes to you. But on behalf of a grateful nation, let me express profound thanks to your sons’
service and their sacrifice. And could the parents of Joshua and Hugo please stand briefly?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I already mentioned I like this guy, Sal. And as I found out myself when I first spoke
with him on the phone and when we met in the Oval Office today, he is a low-key guy, a
humble guy, and he doesn’t seek the limelight. And he’ll tell you that he didn’t do anything
special; that he was just doing his job; that any of his brothers in the unit would do the same
thing. In fact, he just lived up to what his team leader instructed him to do years before:
“You do everything you can.”
Staff Sergeant Giunta, repeatedly and without hesitation, you charged forward through
extreme enemy fire, embodying the warrior ethos that says, “I will never leave a fallen
comrade.” Your actions disrupted a devastating ambush before it could claim more lives.
Your courage prevented the capture of an American soldier and brought that soldier back to
his family. You may believe that you don’t deserve this honor, but it was your fellow soldiers
who recommended you for it. In fact, your commander specifically said in his
recommendation that you lived up to the standards of the most decorated American soldier of
World War II, Audie Murphy, who famously repelled an overwhelming enemy attack by himself
for one simple reason: “They were killing my friends.”
That’s why Salvatore Giunta risked his life for his fellow soldiers -- because they would risk
their lives for him. That’s what fueled his bravery -- not just the urgent impulse to have their
backs, but the absolute confidence that they had his. One of them, Sal has said -- of these
young men that he was with, he said, “They are just as much of me as I am.” They are just
as much of me as I am.
So I would ask Sal’s team, all of Battle Company who were with him that day, to please stand
and be recognized as well. Gentlemen, thank you for your service. We’re all in your debt.
And I’m proud to be your Commander-in-Chief.
These are the soldiers of our Armed Forces. Highly trained. Battle-hardened. Each with
specialized roles and responsibilities, but all with one thing in common -- they volunteered. In
an era when it’s never been more tempting to chase personal ambition or narrow self-interest,
they chose the opposite. They felt a tug; they answered a call; they said, “I’ll go.” And for
the better part of a decade, they have endured tour after tour in distant and difficult places;
they have protected us from danger; they have given others the opportunity to earn a better
and more secure life.
They are the courageous men and women serving in Afghanistan even as we speak. They
keep clear focus on their mission: to deny safe haven for terrorists who would attack our
country, to break the back of the Taliban insurgency, to build the Afghans’ capacity to defend
themselves. They possess the steely resolve to see their mission through. They are made of
the same strong stuff as the troops in this room, and I am absolutely confident that they will
continue to succeed in the missions that we give them, in Afghanistan and beyond.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
After all, our brave servicemen and women and their families have done everything they’ve
been asked to do. They have been everything that we have asked them to be. “If I am a
hero,” Sal has said, “then every man who stands around me, every woman in the military,
every person who defends this country is.” And he’s right.
This medal today is a testament to his uncommon valor, but also to the parents and the
community that raised him; the military that trained him; and all the men and women who
served by his side.
All of them deserve our enduring thanks and gratitude. They represent a small fraction of the
American population, but they and the families who await their safe return carry far more than
their fair share of our burden. They fight halfway around the globe, but they do it in hopes
that our children and our grandchildren won’t have to.
They are the very best part of us. They are our friends, our family, our neighbors, our
classmates, our coworkers. They are why our banner still waves, our founding principles still
shine, and our country -- the United States of America -- still stands as a force for good all
over the world.
So, please join me in welcoming Staff Sergeant Salvatore A. Giunta for the reading of the
citation.
MILITARY AIDE: The President of the United States of America, authorized by act of
Congress, March 3, 1863, has awarded, in the name of Congress, the Medal of Honor
to then Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta, United States Army.
Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta distinguished himself conspicuously by gallantry and
intrepidity, at the risk of his life, above and beyond the call of duty, in action, with an
armed enemy in the Korengal Valley, Afghanistan, on October 25, 2007.
While conducting a patrol as team leader, with Company B, 2d Battalion Airborne, 503d
Infantry Regiment, Specialist Giunta and his team were navigating through harsh
terrain when they were ambushed by a well-armed and well-coordinated insurgent
force.
While under heavy enemy fire, Specialist Giunta immediately sprinted towards cover
and engaged the enemy. Seeing that his squad leader had fallen, and believing that
he had been injured, Specialist Giunta exposed himself to withering enemy fire and
raced towards his squad leader, helped him to cover and administered medical aid.
While administering first aid, enemy fire struck Special Giunta’s body armor and his
secondary weapon. Without regard to the ongoing fire, Specialist Giunta engaged the
enemy before prepping and throwing grenades, using the explosions for cover in order
to conceal his position.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Attempting to reach additional wounded fellow soldiers who were separated from the
squad, Specialist Giunta and his team encountered a barrage of enemy fire that forced
them to the ground. The team continued forward, and upon reaching the wounded
soldiers, Specialist Giunta realized that another soldier was still separated from the
element. Specialist Giunta then advanced forward on his own initiative. As he crested
the top of a hill, he observed two insurgents carrying away an American soldier. He
immediately engaged the enemy, killing one and wounding the other. Upon reaching
the wounded soldier, he began to provide medical aid, as his squad caught up and
provided security.
Specialist Giunta’s unwavering courage, selflessness and decisive leadership while
under extreme enemy fire were integral to his platoon’s ability to defeat an enemy
ambush and recover a fellow American soldier from the enemy.
Specialist Salvatore A. Giunta’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness above and
beyond the call of duty are in keeping with the highest traditions of military service and
reflect great credit upon himself, Company B, 2d Battalion Airborne, 503d Infantry
Regiment and the United States Army.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329591" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Security_Team_Announcement.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Security%20Team%20Announcement.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Nomination of Key National Security Team Members
Delivered 1 December 2008, Chicago, Illinois

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning, everybody. I hope you all had a wonderful Thanksgiving.
Last week, we announced our economic team, which is working as we speak to craft an
Economic Recovery Program to create jobs and grow our struggling economy. Today, Vice
President-elect Biden and I are pleased to announce our national security team.
The national security challenges we face are just as grave -- and just as urgent -- as our
economic crisis. We are fighting two wars. Our old conflicts remain unresolved, and newly
assertive powers have put strains on the international system. The spread of nuclear weapons
raises the peril that the world’s deadliest technologies could fall into dangerous hands. Our
dependence on foreign oil empowers authoritarian governments and endangers our planet.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
America must also be strong at home to be strong abroad. We need to provide education and
opportunity to all our citizens, so every American can compete with anyone, anywhere. And
our economic power must sustain our military strength, our diplomatic leverage, and our
global leadership.
The common thread linking these challenges is the fundamental reality that in the 21st
century, our destiny is shared with the world's. From our markets to our security, from our
public health to our climate, we must act with the understanding that, now more than ever,
we have a stake in what happens across the globe. And as we learned so painfully on 9/11,
terror cannot be contained by borders, nor safety provided by oceans alone.
Last week, we were reminded of this threat once again when terrorists took the lives of six
American among nearly 200 victims in Mumbai. In the world we seek, there is no place for
those who kill innocent civilians to advance hateful extremism. This weekend, I told Prime
Minister Singh of India that Americans stand with the people of India in this dark time. And I
am confident that India's great democracy is more resilient than killers who would tear it
down.
And so, in this uncertain world, the time has come for a new beginning -- a new dawn of
American leadership to overcome the challenges of the 21st century, and to seize the
opportunities embedded in those challenges. We will strengthen our capacity to defeat our
enemies and support our friends. We will renew old alliances and forge new and enduring
partnerships. We will show the world once more that America is relentless in the defense of
our people, steady in advancing our interests, and committed to the ideals that shine as a
beacon to the world: democracy and justice; opportunity and unyielding hope -- because
American values are America’s greatest export to the world.
To succeed, we must pursue a new strategy that skillfully uses, balances, and integrates all
elements of American power: our military and diplomacy; our intelligence and law
enforcement; our economy and the power of our moral example. The team that we've
assembled here today is uniquely suited to do just that.
In their past service and plans for the future, these men and women represent all of those
elements of American power, and the very best of the American example. They've served in
uniform and as diplomats; they have worked as legislators, law enforcement officials, and
executives. They share my pragmatism about the use of power, and my sense of purpose
about America's role as a leader in the world.
I have known Hillary Clinton as a friend, a colleague, a source of counsel, and as a campaign
opponent. She possesses an extraordinary intelligence and a remarkable work ethic. I am
proud that she will be our next Secretary of State. She is an American of tremendous stature
who will have my complete confidence, who knows many of the world's leaders, who will
command respect in every capitol, and who will clearly have the ability to advance our
interests around the world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Hillary’s appointment is a sign to friend and foe of the seriousness of my commitment to
renew American diplomacy and restore our alliances. There is much to do -- from preventing
the spread of nuclear weapons to Iran and North Korea, to seeking a lasting peace between
Israel and the Palestinians, to strengthening international institutions. I have no doubt that
Hillary Clinton is the right person to lead our State Department, and to work with me in
tackling this ambitious foreign policy agenda.
At a time when we face unprecedented transition amidst two wars, I've have asked Robert
Gates to continue as Secretary of Defense, and I'm pleased that he's accepted. Two years
ago, he took over the Pentagon at a difficult time. He restored accountability. He won the
confidence of military commanders and the trust of our brave men and women in uniform, as
well as their families. He earned the respect of members of Congress on both sides of the aisle
for his pragmatism and competence. He knows that we need a sustainable national security
strategy -- and that includes a bipartisan consensus at home.
As I said throughout the campaign, I will be giving Secretary Gates and our military a new
mission as soon as I take office: responsibly ending the war in Iraq through a successful
transition to Iraqi control. We will also ensure that we have the strategy and resources to
succeed against al Qaeda and the Taliban. As Bob said not too long ago, Afghanistan is where
the war on terror began, and it is where it must end. And going forward, we will continue to
make the investments necessary to strengthen our military and increase our ground forces to
defeat the threats of the 21st century.
Eric Holder has the talent and commitment to succeed as Attorney General from his first day
on the job, which is even more important in a transition that demands vigilance. He has
distinguished himself as a prosecutor, a judge, and a senior official, and he is deeply familiar
with the law enforcement challenges we face -- from terrorism to counter-intelligence, from
white collar crime to public corruption. Eric also has the combination of toughness and
independence that we need at the Justice Department. Let me be clear: The Attorney General
serves the American people. And I have every expectation that Eric will protect our people,
uphold the public trust, and adhere to our Constitution.
Janet Napolitano offers the experience and executive skills we need in the next Secretary of
Homeland Security. She has spent her career protecting people -- as a US Attorney, an
Attorney General, and as the Governor of Arizona. She understands the need for a
Department of Homeland Security that has the capacity to help prevent terrorist attacks and
respond to catastrophe -- be it manmade or natural. Janet assumes this critical role having
learned the lessons -- some of them painful -- of the last several years, from 9/11 to Katrina.
She insists on competence and accountability. She knows firsthand the need to have a partner
in Washington that works well with state and local governments. She understands as well as
anyone the danger of an unsecure border. And she will be a leader who can reform a
sprawling Department while safeguarding our homeland.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Susan Rice will take on the crucial task of serving as Permanent Representative of the United
States to the United Nations. Susan has been a close and trusted advisor. As in previous
Administrations, the UN Ambassador will serve as a member of my cabinet and an integral
member of my team. Her background as a scholar, on the National Security Council, and
Assistant Secretary of State will serve our nation well at the United Nations. Susan knows that
the global challenges we face demand global institutions that work. She shares my belief that
the UN is an indispensable and imperfect forum. She will carry the message that our
commitment to multilateral action must be coupled with a commitment to reform. We need
the United Nations to be more effective as a venue for collective action -- against terror and
proliferation, climate change and genocide, poverty and disease.
Finally, I am convinced that General James Jones is uniquely suited to be a strong and skilled
National Security Advisor. Generations of Joneses have served heroically on the battlefield -from the beaches of Tarawa in World War II, to Foxtrot Ridge in Vietnam. Jim's Silver Star is a
proud part of that legacy. He will bring to the job the dual experience of serving in uniform
and as a diplomat. He has commanded a platoon in battle, served as Supreme Allied
Commander in a time of war, and worked on behalf of peace in the Middle East. Jim is focused
on the threats of today and the future. He understands the connection between energy and
national security, and has worked on the frontlines of global instability – from Kosovo to
northern Iraq to Afghanistan. He will advise me and work effectively to integrate our efforts
across the government, so that we are effectively using all elements of American power to
defeat unconventional threats and promote our values.
I am confident that this team is what we need to make a new beginning for American national
security. This morning, we met to discuss the situation in Mumbai and some of the challenges
that we face in the months and years ahead. In the coming weeks, I will be in close contact
with these advisors, who will be working with their counterparts in the Bush Administration to
make sure that we are ready to hit the ground running on January 20th. Given the range of
threats that we face and the vulnerability that can be a part of every presidential transition, I
hope that we can proceed swiftly for those national security officials who demand
confirmation.
We move forward with the humility that comes with knowing that there are brave men and
women protecting us on our front lines: diplomats and intelligence officers in dangerous
corners of the world, troops serving their second, third, or fourth tours; FBI agents in the
field, cops on the beat, prosecutors in our courts, and cargo inspectors at our ports. These
selfless Americans whose names are unknown to most of us will form the backbone of our
effort. If we serve as well as they are serving, we will protect our country and promote our
values.
And as we move forward with respect for America's tradition of a bipartisan national security
policy and a commitment to national unity, we have to recall that when it comes to keeping
our nation and our people safe, we are not Republicans or Democrats: We are Americans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
There's no monopoly of power or wisdom in either party. Together, as one nation, as one
people, we can shape our times instead of being shaped by them. Together, we will meet the
challenges of the 21st century not with fear, but with hope.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329522" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Floor_Coretta_King.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Floor%20Coretta%20King.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on the Passing of Coretta Scott King
delivered 31 January 2006, Washington, D.C

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio and edited for continuity

Thank you very much, Mr. President. Today, we mourn the passing of Coretta Scott King.
And when I think about Coretta Scott King, I think about the little girl who walked five miles
to school on those rural Alabama roads and felt the heat of racism each day she passed the
door of the Whites-only school, so much closer to home. It didn't matter, because she studied
and succeeded and excelled beyond most of her classmates, Black and White. She earned a
college degree, and an acceptance to a prestigious graduate school up North.
And one day she met a young preacher from Atlanta, and she fell in love with him. And he
told her his dreams -- and she believed in those dreams. And she decided that she would help
to make them real -- not just as a wife or as a friend, but as a partner in freedom's cause.
Over the next years, Coretta Scott King did that in so many ways we can't even imagine. She
raised a family, she marched through the streets, she inspired through song, she led through
speech -- even dodged the countless attempts on her family's life. And when one of those
attempts finally took her love from this world, she made the selfless decision to carry on.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
With no time to even cry or mourn, to wallow in anger or vengeance, Coretta Scott King took
to the streets just four days after the assassination and led 50,000 through the streets of
Memphis in a march for the kind of justice that her husband had given his life for. She spent
the rest of here marching for that same justice -- leading the King Center for Nonviolent
Social Change in Atlanta, and spreading her family's message of hope to every corner of this
world.
You know, I had the great honor of knowing Mrs. King, and the occasion to visit with her in
Atlanta last year. She was an extraordinarily gracious woman. We sat and chatted in her living
room. She showed me an album of photographs of her and Dr. King and the children. And
then she told me what her husband had said to her once, at a time when she was feeling
burdened, understandably, by all the stress and strain that had been placed on the family as a
consequence of his role in the Civil Rights Movement.
She said her husband suggested that:
When you are willing to make sacrifices for a great cause, you will never be alone
because you will have divine companionship and the support of good people.
That was her husband's advice to her -- that when you are willing to make sacrifices for a
great cause, you will never be alone.
Coretta Scott King died in her sleep last night. She certainly was not alone. She was joined by
the companionship and support of a loving family and a grateful Nation -- inspired by her
cause, dedicated to her work, and mournful of her passing.
My thoughts, condolences today are with her children.
And I ask that she and her husband now rest together in eternal peace.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/4/22

Page 2
</doc>
<doc id="file32329547" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Floor_Immigration_Reform.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Floor%20Immigration%20Reform.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on Comprehensive Immigration Reform
delivered 23 May 2007, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. President,
Last year I spoke1 at one of the marches in Chicago for comprehensive immigration reform. I
looked out across the faces of the crowd. I saw mothers and fathers, citizens and noncitizens,
people of Polish and Mexican descent, working Americans, and children. And what I know is
that these are people we should embrace, not fear. We can and should be able to see
ourselves in them.
I do not say that to diminish the complexity of the task. I say it because I believe that attitude
must guide our discourse. We can and should be able to fix our broken immigration system
and do so in a way that's reflective of American values and ideals and the tradition that we
have of accepting immigrants to our shores.
Now, I think that the bill that has come to the floor is a fine first step, but I strongly believe it
requires some changes. And I'm working with others to improve it.
In approaching immigration reform, I believe that we must enact tough, practical reforms that
ensure and promote the legal and orderly entry of immigrants into our country. Just as
important, we must respect the humanity of the carpenters and bricklayers who help build

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/18/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
America; the humanity of garment workers and farmworkers who come to America to join
their families; the humanity of students like my father who came to America in search of a
dream. We are a nation of immigrants, and we must respect that shared history as this
debate moves forward.
To fix the system in a way that does not require us to revisit the same problem in twenty
years, I continue to believe that we need stronger enforcement on the border and at the
workplace. And that means a workable mandatory system that employers must use to verify
the legality of their workers.
But for reform to work, we also must respond to what pulls people to America and what
pushes them out of their home countries. Where we can reunite families, we should. Where
we can bring in more foreign-born workers with the skills our economy needs, we should. And
these goals are not mutually exclusive. We should not say that Spanish speaking or working
class immigrants are only good enough to be temporary workers and cannot earn the right to
be a part of the American family.
With regard to the most pressing part of the immigration challenge -- the 12 million
undocumented immigrants living in the U.S. -- we must create an earned path to citizenship.
Now, no one condones unauthorized entry into the United States. And by supporting an
earned path to citizenship, I am not saying that illegal entry should go unpunished. The path
to permanent residence and eventual citizenship must be tough enough to make it clear that
an unauthorized entry was wrong and will be punished.
But these immigrants are our neighbors. They go to our churches, and their kids go to our
schools. They provide the hard labor that supports many of the industries in our country. We
should bring them out of hiding, make them pay the appropriate fines for their mistakes, and
then help them become tax paying, law-abiding, productive members of society. And so I'm
heartened by the agreement that we have in this bill to put all 12 million or so undocumented
immigrants on a path to earned citizenship. And I applaud those who worked on this
compromise to achieve that pathway.
But there are other parts of the compromise deal before us that cause me serious concern. I
want to just address those now, Mr. President.
In order to stem the demand for illegal workers, we need a mandatory employment
verification system that is actually mandatory. It needs to allow employers to check with the
Department of Homeland Security to see that their employees are legally eligible to work in

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/18/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
the United States. This is something that I worked on last year when we crafted
comprehensive reform and passed it out of the Senate.
Unfortunately, this this year's version of the employment eligibility verification system would
give the Department of Homeland Security too much power to force the screening of everyone
working in America without appropriate safeguards. I will be working with others to offer an
amendment to make this provision closer to what we proposed last year.
As for the guestworker program in the bill, it proposes to create a new 400,000 person annual
temporary worker program that could grow to 600,000 without Congressional approval. And it
expands the existing seasonal guestworker program from 66,000 up to 100,000 in the first
year, and 200,000 after that.
At the end of their temporary status, almost all of these workers would have to go home. That
means at the end of the first three years, we would have at least 1.2 million of these new
guestworkers in the country with only 30,000 of them having any real hope of being able to
stay. And it is my strong belief, Mr. President, that we are setting ourselves up for failure and
creating a new undocumented immigrant population.
As we've learned with misguided immigration policies in the past, it is naive to think that
people who do not have a way to stay legally will just abide by the system and leave. They
will not. This new group of second-class workers will replace the current group of
undocumented immigrants, placing downward pressure on American wages and working
conditions. And where their -- when their time is up, they will go into the shadows where our
current system exploits the undocumented today.
I will support amendments aimed at fixing the temporary worker program that Senator
Bingaman and others have offered. And if we're going to have a new temporary worker
program, those workers should have the opportunity to stay if they prove themselves capable
and willing to participate in this country.
I have to say though, Mr. President, that the most disturbing aspect of this bill is the point
system for future immigrants. As currently drafted, it does not reflect how much Americans
value the family ties that bind people to their brothers and sisters, or to their parents.
As I understand it, a similar point system is used in Australia and Canada and is intended to
attract immigrants who can help produce more goods. But we need to consider more than
economics; we also need to consider our nation's unique history and values and what family-

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/18/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
based preferences are designed to accomplish. As currently structured, the point system gives
no preference to an immigrant with a brother or sister or even a parent who is a U.S. citizen
unless the immigrant meets some minimum and arbitrary threshold on education and skills.
That's wrong and fails to recognize the fundamental morality of uniting Americans with their
family members. It also places a person's job skills over his character and work ethic. How
many of our forefathers would have measured up under this point system? How many would
have been turned back at Ellis Island?
I've cosponsored an amendment with the president [Presiding Officer Senator Menendez] to
remove that arbitrary minimum threshold of points before family starts to count and to bump
up the points for family ties.
And at the appropriate time, I will be offering another amendment with the president
[Presiding Officer Senator Menendez] to sunset the points system in the bill. The proposed
point system constitutes, at minimum, a radical experiment in social engineering and a
departure from our tradition of having family and employers invite immigrants to come. If we
are going to allow this to go forward, then Congress should at the very least revisit the point
system in five years to give us time to examine the concept in depth and determine whether
its intended or unintended consequences are worth the cost of continuing the experiment, or,
whether we should return to the existing system that allows immigrants to be sponsored
through family and employers.
In closing, Mr. President, we must construct a final product that has broad bipartisan support
and will work. I agree with Senator Brownback that the time is now to fix our broken
immigration system. If we do not fix it this year, I fear that divisions over the issue will only
deepen and the challenge will only grow.
But I also believe, Mr. President, that we have to get it right. And I think that it is critical that
as we embark on this enormous venture to update our immigration system, that it is fully
reflective of the powerful tradition of immigration in this country and fully reflective of our
values and our ideals.

1
Senator Barack Obama delivered a brief address at Union Park during one of the "May Day" (see also the "Great American Boycott") rallies of
1 May 2006. Lines delivered include: "Its important to recognize that there is fear out there, there are those who want to turn back the clock."
"We have to reach out to those folks and explain to them that our future will be better together than divided." "Citizenship has its obligations.
Citizenship obliges us to have a common purpose." "This movement has to be a movement that lifts up Americas ideals. There is nothing to
fear. People who have come here have come here for the same reasons that generations have come they want a better life for their children."
[Source: https://groups.yahoo.com/neo/groups/NoIraqWar/conversations/messages/7180]

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/18/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/18/22

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329517" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Floor_Speech_on_the_Patriot_Act.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Floor%20Speech%20on%20the%20Patriot%20Act.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on the PATRIOT Act
delivered 15 December 2005

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much, Mr. President.
You know, four years ago, following the most devastating attack in our history, this Body
passed the USA PATRIOT Act in order to give our Nation's law enforcement the tools they
needed to track down terrorists who plot and lurk within our own borders and all over the
world; terrorists who, right now, are looking to exploit weaknesses in our laws and our
security to carry out attacks that may be even deadlier than those that took place on
September 11th.
We all agree that we need legislation to make it harder for suspected terrorists to go
undetected in this country. And we all agree that we needed to make it harder for them to
organize and strategize and get flight licenses and sneak across our borders. Americans
everywhere wanted to do that.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But soon after the PATRIOT Act passed, a few years before I even arrived here in the Senate,
I began hearing concerns from people of every background and political leaning that this law,
the very purpose of which was to protect us, was also threatening to violate some of the
rights and freedoms that we hold most dear; that it didn't just provide law enforcement the
powers it needed to keep us safe but powers that it didn't need to invade our privacy without
cause or suspicion.
Now, in Washington, this issue has tended to degenerate into the typical either/or debate:
Either we protect our people from terror or we protect our most cherished principles. I would
suggest, Mr. President, that this is a false choice. It asks too little of us and it assumes too
little about America.
That's why, as it's come to time to reauthorize the USA PATRIOT Act, we've been working in a
bipartisan way to do both -- to show American people that we can track down terrorists
without trampling on our civil liberties, to show the American people that the Federal
Government will only issue warrants and execute searches because it needs to do so, not
because it can do so.
What we have been trying to achieve under the leadership of a bipartisan group of Senators is
some accountability in this process to get answers and see evidence where there is suspicion.
Several weeks ago, these efforts bore fruit. The Judiciary Committee and the U.S. -- U.S.
Senate managed to pass a piece of bipartisan legislation that, while I can't say is perfect, was
able to address some of the most serious problems in the existing law.
Unfortunately, that strong bipartisan legislation has been tossed aside in conference. Instead,
we've been forced to consider a piece of rushed legislation that fails to address the concerns
of Members of both parties as well as the American people.
This is legislation that puts our own Justice Department above the law. When national security
letters are issued, they allow Federal agents to conduct any search on any American, no
matter how extensive, how wide ranging, without ever going before a judge to prove that the
search is necessary. All that is needed is a signoff from a local FBI agent. That's it.
Once a business or a person receives notification that they will be searched, they are
prohibited from telling anyone about it and they're even prohibited from challenging this
automatic gag order in court. Even though judges have already found that similar restrictions

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
violate the first amendment, this conference report disregards the case law and the right to
challenge the gag order.
If you do decide to consult an attorney for legal advice, hold on. You will have to tell the FBI
that you've done so. Think about that: You want to talk to a lawyer about whether or not your
actions are going to be causing you to get into trouble, you've got to tell the FBI that you're
consulting a lawyer. This is unheard of. There is no such requirement in any other area of the
law. I see no reason why it's justified here.
And if someone wants to know why their own Government has decided to go on a fishing
expedition through every personal record or private document, through the library books that
you read, the phone calls that you've made, the e-mails that you've sent, this legislation gives
people no rights to appeal the need for such a search in a court of law.
No judge will hear your plea; no jury will hear your case. This is just plain wrong. And there
are Republican Senators as well as Democratic Senators that recognize that it's plain wrong.
Giving law enforcement the tools they need to investigate suspicious activities is one thing
and it's the right thing; but doing it without any real oversight seriously jeopardizes the rights
of all Americans and the ideals America stands for.
Now, supporters of this conference report have argued we should just hold our noses and
support this legislation because it's not going to get any better. That is not a good argument.
We can do better. We've got time to do better. It doesn't convince me that I should support
this report. I believe we owe it to the Nation, we owe it to those who fought for our civil
liberties, we owe it to the future and our children to make sure that we craft the kind of
legislation that would make us proud, not just legislation that we would settle for because
we're in a rush. We don't have to settle for a PATRIOT Act that sacrifices our liberties or our
safety. We can have one that secures both.
Now, there have been proposals on both sides of the aisle and in both Houses of Congress to
extend the PATRIOT Act for three months so that we can reach an agreement on this bill that
is well thought through. I support these efforts and will oppose cloture on what I consider to
be this unacceptable conference report.
Mr. President, I thank you. I yield the floor.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/31/21

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329526" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Floor_Speech_on_Voting_Rights_Act_Renewal.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Floor%20Speech%20on%20Voting%20Rights%20Act%20Renewal.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on Voting Rights Act Reauthorization
delivered 20 July 2006

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. President, I rise today both humbled and honored by the opportunity to express my
support for renewal of the expiring provisions of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
I want to thank the many people inside and outside Congress who have worked so hard over
the past year to get us here. We owe a great debt of gratitude to the leadership on both sides
of the aisle. And we owe special thanks to Chairmen Sensenbrenner and Specter, Ranking
Members Conyers and Leahy, and Representative Mel Watt. Without their work and
dedication, and the support of voting rights advocates across the country, I doubt that this bill
would have come before us so soon.
I want to thank both Chambers and both sides of the aisle, as well, for getting this done with
the same broad support that drove the original act 40 years ago. At a time when Americans
are frustrated with the partisan bickering that too often stalls our work, the refreshing display
of bipartisanship we're seeing today reflects our collective belief in the success of the act and
reminds us of how effective we can be when we work together.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/31/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Nobody can deny that we've come a long way since 1965. Look at the registration numbers.
Only two years after the passage of the original Act, registration numbers for minority voters
in some States doubled. Soon after, not a single State covered by the Voting Rights Act had
registered less than half of its minority voting age population.
Look at the influence of African-American elected officials at every single level of government.
There are African-American Members of Congress. Since 2001, our Nation's top diplomat1 has
been African American. In fact, most of America's elected African-American officials come
from States covered by section 5 of the Voting Rights Act -- States like Mississippi, and
Alabama, Louisiana, and Georgia.
But to me, the most striking evidence of our progress can be found right across this building
in my dear friend Congressman John Lewis, who was on the front lines of the Civil Rights
Movement, risking life and limb for freedom. And on March 7th, 1965, he led 600 peaceful
protesters, demanding the right to vote, across the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama.
Now, I've often thought about the people on the Edmund Pettus Bridge that day, not only
John Lewis and Hosea Williams, who led the march, but the hundreds of everyday Americans
who left their homes and their churches to join it -- Blacks and Whites, teenagers, children,
teachers, bankers, shopkeepers -- what Dr. King called a beloved community of God's children
ready to stand for freedom.
And I wonder sometimes -- Where did they find that kind of courage? You know, when you're
facing row after row of State troopers on horseback, armed with billy clubs and tear gas -when they're coming toward you spewing hatred and violence, how do you simply stop, kneel
down, and pray to the Lord for salvation?
But the most amazing thing of all is that after that day, after John Lewis was beaten within an
inch of his life, after people's heads were gashed open and their eyes were burned, and they
watched their children's innocence literally beaten out of them -- after all that, they went back
and marched again. They marched again. They crossed the bridge. They awakened a nation's
conscience. And not five months later the Voting Rights Act of 1965 was signed into law. It
was reauthorized in 1970, in 1975, and 1982.
Now, in 2006 John Lewis, the physical scars of those marches still visible, is an original
cosponsor of the fourth reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. And he was joined last week
by 389 of his House colleagues in voting for its passage.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/31/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
There were some in the House, and there may be some in the Senate, who argue that the Act
is no longer needed, that the protections of section 5's "preclearance'' requirement" -- a
requirement that ensures certain States are upholding the right to vote -- are targeting the
wrong States. Unfortunately, the evidence refutes that notion. Of the 1100 objections issued
by the Department of Justice since 1965, 56 [percent] occurred since the last reauthorization
in 1982. Over half have occurred since 1982. So despite the progress these States have made
in upholding the right to vote, it's clear that problems still exist.
Now, there are others who would argue that we shouldn't renew section 203's protection of
language minorities. These arguments have been tied to debates over immigration and they
tend to muddle a noncontroversial issue -- protecting the right to vote -- with one of today's
most contentious debates. But let's remember, you can't request language assistance if you're
not a voter. And you can't be a voter if you are not a citizen. And while voters, as citizens,
must be proficient in English, many are simply more confident that they can cast ballots
printed in their native languages without making errors. It's not an unreasonable assumption.
A representative of the Southwestern Voter Registration Project is quoted as saying, (quote):
Citizens who prefer Spanish registration cards do so because they feel more connected
to the process. They also feel they trust the process more when they [fully] understand
it.2
These sentiments, connection to and trust in our democratic process, are exactly what we
want from our voting rights legislation.
Our challenges, of course, don't end at reauthorizing the Voting Rights Act. We have to
prevent the problems we've seen in recent elections from happening again. We've seen
political operatives purge voters from registration rolls for no legitimate reason, prevent
eligible ex-felons from casting ballots, distribute polling equipment unevenly, and deceive
voters about the time, location, and rules of elections. And unfortunately, these efforts have
been directed primarily at minority voters -- the disabled, low-income individuals, and other
historically disenfranchised groups.
The Help America Vote Act, or HAVA, was a big step in the right direction. But we've got to do
more. We need to fully fund HAVA if we're going to move forward in the next stage of securing
the right to vote for every citizen. We need to enforce critical requirements like statewide
registration databases. We need to make sure polling equipment is distributed equitably and

AmericanRhetoric.com

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/31/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
equipment actually works. And we need to work on getting more people to the polls on
election day.
We need to make sure that minority voters are not the subject of some deplorable
intimidation tactics when they do go to the polls.
You know, in 2004 Native American voters in South Dakota were confronted by men posing as
law enforcement. These hired intimidators joked about jail time for ballot missteps and
followed voters to their cars to record their license plates.
["]In Lake County, Ohio, some voters received a memo on bogus Board of Election[s]
letterhead, informing voters who registered through Democratic and NAACP drives that they
could not vote.["]3
In Wisconsin, a flier purporting to be from the "Milwaukee Black Voters League" was circulated
in predominantly African-American neighborhoods with the following message: "If you've
already voted in any election this year, you can't vote in the presidential election. "If you
violate any of these laws, you can get ten years in prison and your children will get taken
away from you."4
Now, think about that. We've got a lot more work to do. This occasion is a cause for
celebration. But it's also an opportunity to renew our commitment to voting rights. As
Congressman Lewis said last week: It's clear that we've come a great distance, but we still
have a great distance to go.5,6 Now, the memory of Selma still lives on in the spirit of the
Voting Rights Act. Since that day, the Voting Rights Act has been a critical tool in ensuring
that all Americans not only have the right to vote but have the right to have their vote
counted.
And those of us concerned about protecting those rights can't afford to sit on our laurels upon
reauthorization of this bill. We need to take advantage of this rare, united front and continue
to fight to ensure unimpeded access to the polls of all Americans. In other words, we need to
take the spirit that existed on that bridge, and we have to spread it across this country.
You know, two weeks after the first march was turned back, Dr. King spoke, and he told a
gathering of organizers and activists and community members -- he said that they should not
despair because "the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice."

AmericanRhetoric.com

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/31/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
The arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends toward justice. That's because of the work
that each of us do that it bends toward justice. It's because of people like John Lewis and
Fannie Lou Hamer and Coretta Scott King and Rosa Parks -- all the giants upon whose
shoulders we stand -- that we are beneficiaries of that arc bending toward justice.
That's why I stand here today. I would not be in the United States Senate had it not been for
the efforts and courage of so many parents and grandparents and ordinary people who were
willing to reach up and bend that arc in the direction of justice.
I hope we continue to see that spirit live on not just during this debate but throughout all our
work here in the Senate.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

1

Colin Powell (2001-2005) and Condoleezza Rice (2005-2009) served as U.S. Secretaries of State, the Nation's top diplomatic post.

2
Quotation Source; Landa, V. (18 October 2005). Hearing before the Subcommittee on the Constitution of the Committee on the Judiciary
House of Representatives [via Google Books]

3
Quotation (near verbatim) Source: Becker, J. & Finkel, D. (31 October 2004). Now they're registered, Now they're not. Washington Post. p.
A22.

4

Quotation Source: Becker, J. & Finkel, D. (31 October 2004). Now they're registered, Now they're not. Washington Post. p. A22.

5
Possible Quotation Source: On 4 May 2006, Representative Mel Watt (D-North Carolina) read a prepared statement on behalf of Rep. John
Lewis (D-Georgia) who was tending to a prior committee assignment. That statement in full reads: ''The Voting Rights Act was necessary in
1965, and unfortunately it is still necessary today, as the extensive Committee record makes clear. We have come a great distance, but we
still have a great distance to go before all Americans have free and equal access to the ballot box. This legislation is among the most
important that this Congress will consider, and I trust that we will take our responsibility to protect the voting rights of all Americans very
seriously as we pass this legislation. We must renew the expiring sections of the Voting Rights Act in this session of Congress. Thank you.''
(emphasis added)

6

Possible Quotation Source: On 13 July 2006 (a week before Senator Obama's address above) Representative John Lewis passionately
delivered a speech from the Floor of the House of Representatives. Video recording of that statement is available here at C-SPAN (beg. at
3:17:11). A transcript is available on Mr. Lewis' government website here.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller

Updated 12/31/21

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329572" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Floor_Speech_on_Wall_Street_Bailout_Bill.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Floor%20Speech%20on%20Wall%20Street%20Bailout%20Bill.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech in Support of the Wall Street Bailout Bill
delivered 1 October 2008

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you to the distinguished Senator from
Connecticut not only for yielding time, but also for the extraordinarily hard work that he's put
in over the last several days and, in fact, over a -- a week. And I want to thank his
counterparts on the other side, including Senator Gregg, for their hard work.
Now, the fact that we're even here voting on a plan to rescue our economy from the greed
and irresponsibility of Wall Street and some in Washington is an outrage. It's an outrage to
every American who works hard, pays their taxes, is doing their best every day to make a
better life for themselves and their families. And understandably, people are frustrated and
they're angry that Wall Street's mistakes have put their tax dollars at risk. And they should
be. I'm frustrated and angry, too.
But while there's plenty of blame to go around -- and many in Washington and Wall Street
who deserve it, all of us -- all of us have a responsibility to solve this crisis, because it affects
the financial well-being of every single American. There will be time to punish those who set
this fire, but now is not the time to argue about how it got set, or did the neighbor sleep in his
bed, or leave the stove on. Right now we want to put out that fire; and now's the time for us
to come together and do that.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
When the House of Representatives failed to act on Monday, we saw the single largest decline
in the stock market in two decades. Over one trillion dollars of wealth was lost by the time the
markets closed. And it wasn't just the wealth of a few CEOs or Wall Street executives. The
401(k)s and retirement accounts of millions became smaller. The state pension funds of
teachers and government employees lost billions upon billions of dollars. Hard-working
Americans who invested their nest egg to watch it grow saw it diminish and in some cases
disappear.
And while that decline was devastating, the consequences of the credit crisis that caused it
will be even worse if we do not act now. We're in a very dangerous situation, where financial
institutions across this country are afraid to lend money. And if all that meant was the failure
of a few banks in New York, that would be one thing. But that's not what it means. What it
means is, if we don't act, it will be harder for Americans to get a mortgage for their home or
loans they need to buy a car or send their children to college.
What it means is that businesses won't be able to get the loans they need to open a new
factory or make payroll for their workers. And if they can't make payroll on Friday, then
workers are laid off on Monday. And if workers are laid off on Monday, then they can't pay
their bills or pay back their loans to somebody else. And it will go on and on and on, rippling
through the entire economy. And potentially we could see thousands of businesses close,
millions of jobs could be lost, and a long and painful recession could follow. In other words,
this is not just a Wall Street crisis; it's an American crisis. And it's the American economy that
needs this rescue plan.
I understand completely why people would be skeptical when this President asks for a blank
check to solve this problem. I was, too, as was Senator Dodd and a whole bunch of us here.
And that's why, over a week ago, I demanded that this plan include some specific proposals to
protect taxpayers, protections that the Administration eventually agreed to, and, thanks to the
hard work of Senator Dodd and Republican counterparts like Senator Gregg, we here in the
Senate have agreed to, and now hopefully the House will agree to, as well.
Let me just go over those principles:
Number one, I said we needed an independent board to provide oversight and
accountability for how and where this money is spent at every step of the way.
Number two, I said that we cannot help banks on Wall Street without helping the
millions of innocent homeowners who are struggling to stay in their homes. They
deserve a plan, too.
Number three, I said that I would not allow this plan to become a welfare program for
Wall Street executives, whose greed and irresponsibility got us into this mess.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And, finally, I said that, if American taxpayers are financing this solution, then they
have to be treated like investors. They should get every penny of their tax dollars back
once the economy recovers.
Now, this last part is important, because it's been the most misunderstood and poorly
communicated part of this plan. This is not a plan to just hand over 700 billion dollars of
taxpayer money to a few banks. If this is managed correctly -- and that's an important "if" -we will hopefully get most or all of our money back and possibly even turn a profit on the
government's intervention, every penny of which will go directly back to the American people.
And if we fall short, we will levy a fee on financial institutions so that they can repay for the
losses that they caused.
Now, let me -- let's acknowledge, even with all these taxpayer protections, this plan is not
perfect. Democrats and Republicans in Congress have legitimate concerns about it. Some of
my closest colleagues, people I have the greatest respect for, still have problems with it and
may choose to vote against this bill, and I think that we can respectfully disagree. I
understand their frustrations.
I also know that many -- many Americans share their concerns. But it's clear that, from my
perspective, this is what we need to do right now to prevent the possibility of a crisis turning
into a catastrophe. It is conceivable -- it's possible that if we did nothing everything would
turn out okay. It's -- There -- There's a possibility that that's true. And there's no doubt that
there may be other plans out there that, had we had two or three or six months to develop,
might be even more refined and might serve our purposes better.
But we don't have that kind of time. And we can't afford to take a risk that the economy of
the United States of America and, as a consequence, the worldwide economy could be
plunged into a very, very deep hole. So to Democrats and Republicans who've opposed this
plan, I say: Step up to the plate. Let's do what's right for the country at this time, because
the time to act is now.
I know many Americans are wondering what happens next. And passing this bill can't be the
end of our work to strengthen our economy; it must be the beginning. Because one thing I -I think all of us who may end up supporting this bill understand is that, even if we get this in
place, we could still have enormous problems and probably will have big problems in the
economy over the next several months and potentially longer; because the fact is, is that we
have seen some mismanagement of the fundamentals of the economy for a very long time,
and we are not going to dig ourselves out of that hole immediately.
So this is not the end. This is the beginning. As soon as we pass this rescue plan, we need to
move aggressively with the same sense of urgency to rescue families on Main Street who are
struggling to pay their bills and keep their jobs. They've been in crisis a lot longer than Wall
Street has.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I've said it before and I say it again: We need to pass an economic stimulus package that will
help ordinary Americans cope with rising food and gas prices, that can save one million jobs
rebuilding our schools, and roads, and our infrastructure, and help states and cities avoid
budget cuts and tax increase[s], a -- a plan that would extend expiring unemployment
benefits for those Americans who've lost their jobs and cannot find new ones. That's the right
thing to do at a time when consumer confidence is down and we are in great danger of
slipping into a big recession.
We also must do more in this rescue package in order to help homeowners stay in their
homes. I will continue to advocate bankruptcy reforms. I know my colleague from Illinois,
Dick Durbin, has been a strong champion of this, as have many. It is the right thing to do to
change our bankruptcy laws so that people have a better chance of staying in their homes and
we're not seeing communities devastated all across the country. And we should encourage
Treasury to study the option of buying individual mortgages, like we did successfully in the
1930s.
And finally, while we all hope that this rescue package succeeds, we should be prepared to
take more vigorous actions in the months ahead to rebuild capital, if it's necessary.
Now, just as families are planning for their future in tough times, Washington's going to have
to do the same. Runaway spending and record deficits are not how families run their budgets.
It can't be how Washington handles people's tax dollars. So we're going to have to return to
the fiscal responsibility we had in the 1990s. And the next White House and the next Congress
is going to have to work together to make sure that we go through our budget, we get rid of
programs that don't work, that we make the ones that do work better and cost less. With less
money flowing into the Treasury, some useful programs or policies might need to be delayed.
And some might be -- need to be stretched out over a longer period of time.
But there are certain investments in our future that we cannot delay, precisely because our
economy is in turmoil.
Mr. President, I've exceeded the time a little bit. I would like unanimous consent for a couple
more minutes.
[Cross talk from the Floor]

Senate President: Is there objection? Seeing no objection -Senator Obama: Thank you.
There are certain investments in our future that we can't delay precisely be -- because the
economy's in turmoil. We can't wait to help Americans keep up with rising costs and shrinking
paychecks, and we're going to do that by making sure that we are giving our workers a
middle-class tax cut.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
We can't wait to relieve the burden of crushing health care costs. We can't wait to create
millions of new jobs by rebuilding our roads and our bridges, and investing in broadband lines
in rural communities, and fixing our electricity grid so we can get renewable energy to
population centers that need them. And we need to develop an energy policy that prevents us
from sending 700 billion dollars a year to tyrants and dictators for their oil. We can't wait to
educate the next generation of Americans with the skills and knowledge they need to compete
with any workers anywhere in the world. These are the priorities we cannot delay.
Now, let me just close by saying this: I do not think this is going to be easy. It's not going to
come without costs. We are all going to need to sacrifice. We're all going to need to pull our
weight, because now, more than ever, we are all in this together. That's part of what this
crisis has taught us -- that in the end of the day, there's no real separation between Wall
Street and Main Street. There's only the road we're traveling on as Americans. And we will
rise or fall on that journey as one nation and as one people.
I know that many Americans are feeling anxiety right now about their jobs, about their
homes, about their life savings. But I also know this, that we can steer ourselves out of this
crisis. We are -- always have. During the great financial crisis of the last century, in his first
fireside chat, FDR told his fellow Americans that,
There is an element in the re-adjustment of our financial system more important than
currency, more important than gold, and that is the confidence of the people
themselves. Confidence and courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our
plan.
Let us unite in banishing fear. Together we cannot fail. We cannot fail, not now, not tomorrow,
not next year.
This is a nation that's faced down war and depression, great challenges and great threats. And
at each and every moment, we have risen to meet up these challenges, not as Democrats, not
as Republicans, but as Americans, with resolve and with confidence, with that fundamental
belief that, here in America, our destiny is not written for us, it's written by us. And that's who
we are. And that's the country I know we can be right now.
I want to thank again the extraordinary leadership of Chairman Dodd and Banking -- the
Banking Committee, as well as Chairman Baucus and Majority Leader Reid. They have worked
tirelessly. I want to thank the leadership in the House of Representatives.
I urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important legislation, understanding that
this will not solve all our problems. It is a necessary but not sufficient step to make sure that
this economy once again works on behalf of all Americans in their pursuit of the American
dream.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329539" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Speech_Iraq_Federalism_Amendment.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Speech%20Iraq%20Federalism%20Amendment.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech in Favor of Iraq Federalism Amendment
delivered 13 March 2007

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. President, I rise, first, to offer strong words of support for the statement that was just
offered by the distinguished Senator from Massachusetts. I, as well, rise today to speak in
support of the Iraq resolution that the Senate will consider tomorrow.
Mr. President, the news from Iraq is very bad. Last week, a suicide bomber stood outside a
bookstore and killed 20 people. Other attacks killed 118 Shia pilgrims. On Sunday, a car bomb
went off in central Baghdad, and more than 30 people died. And the road from the airport into
Baghdad is littered with smoldering debris, craters from improvised explosive devices, and the
memories of our sons and daughters.
Mr. President, the civil war in Iraq rages on. The insurgents have started to change their
tactics. They hide in buildings and along the streets and wait for our helicopters. They've shot
down at least eight U.S. helicopters in the last month. More of our soldiers are dying and
coming home with their bodies broken and their nerves shattered at a VA system completely
unprepared for what they need to rebuild their lives.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Mr. President, it is not enough for the President to tell us that victory in this war is simply a
matter of American resolve. The American people have been extraordinarily resolved. They've
seen their sons and daughters killed or wounded in the streets of Fallujah. They've spent
hundreds of billions of dollars on this effort -- money that they know could have been devoted
to strengthening our homeland security and our competitive standing as a Nation. The failure
has not been a failure of resolve. That's not what's led us into chaos. It's been a failure of
strategy; and it's time that the strategy change. There is no military solution, Mr. President, to
the civil war that rages on in Iraq; and it's time for us to redeploy so that a political solution
becomes possible.
The news from Iraq is very bad, and it's been that way for at least four years. We all wish the
-- that the land the President and the Vice President speak of exists. We wish that there was
an Iraq where the insurgency was in the last throes, where the people work with security,
where children play outside, where a vibrant new democracy lights up the nighttime sky. We
wish for those things, but there's no alternative reality to what we see and read about in the
news, to what we've experienced these long four years.
I repeat, Mr. President, there is no military solution to this war. At this point, no amount of
soldiers can solve the grievances at the heart of someone else's civil war. The Iraqi people -Shia, Sunni, and Kurd -- must come to the table and reach a political settlement themselves.
If they want peace, they must do the hard work necessary to achieve it.
Our failed strategy in Iraq has strengthened Iran's strategic position, reduced U.S. credibility
and influence around the world, placed Israel and other nations friendly to the United States
in the region in greater peril. These are not the signs of a well-laid plan. It's time for a
profound change.
This is what we're trying to do here today. We're saying it is time to start making plans to
redeploy our troops so that they can focus on the wider struggle against terrorism, win the
war in Afghanistan, strengthen our position in the Middle East, and pressure the Iraqis to
reach a political settlement. Even if this effort falls short, we will continue to try to accomplish
what the American people asked for last November.
I'm glad to see, though, that this new effort is gaining consensus. And I want to commend
Senator Reid for his efforts. He took the time to listen -- so many of us from both Chambers
of Congress could help develop this plan.
The decision in particular to begin a phased redeployment, with the goal of redeploying all our
combat forces by March 31st, 2008, is the right step. It's a measure the Iraq Study Group
spoke of, an idea I borrowed from them, an idea that, in a bill I introduced, now has more
than 60 cosponsors from House and Senate and from both sides of the aisle. They've
supported this plan since I announced a similar plan in January.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
The decision allows some U.S. forces to remain in Iraq with a clear mission to protect U.S. and
coalition personnel, conduct counterterrorism operations, and to train and equip Iraqi forces;
and that is a smart decision. President al-Maliki spoke at a conference and warned that the
violence in Iraq could spread throughout the region if it goes unchecked. By maintaining a
strong presence in Iraq and the Middle East, as both my bill and the leadership bill does, we
can ensure that the chaos does not spread.
I should also add that the decision to begin this phased redeployment within 120 days is a
practical one. Our military options have been exhausted. It's time to seek a political solution
to this war, and with this decision we send a clear signal to the parties involved that they need
to arrive at an accommodation.
Mr. President, while I strongly believe that this war never should have been authorized, I
believe we must be as careful in ending the war as we were careless getting in. While I prefer
my approach, as reflected in my bill, I believe that this new resolution does begin to point
U.S. policy in Iraq and the region in the right direction. An end to the war, and achieving a
political solution to Iraq's civil war, will not happen unless we demand it.
Peace with stability doesn't just happen because we wish for it. It comes when we never give
in and never give up and never tire of working towards a life on Earth worthy of our human
dignity. The decisions that have been made have led us to this crossroads -- a moment of
great peril, Mr. President.
We have a choice. We can continue down the road that's weakened our credibility and
damaged our strategic interests in the region or we can turn toward the future. The road
won't be smooth, and I have to say, Mr. President, that there will be risks with any approach.
But this approach is our last best hope to end this war so we can begin to bring our troops
home and begin the hard work of securing our country and our world from the threats that we
face.
The President has said he will continue down the road towards more troops and more of the
same failed policies. The President sought and won authorization from Congress to wage this
war from the start. But he is now dismissing and ignoring the will of the American people, that
is tired of years of watching the human and financial tolls mount.
Mr. President, the news from Iraq is very bad, but it can change if we in this Chamber say
"enough." Let this day be the day that begins the painful and difficult work of moving from
this crossroad. Let this be the day that we begin pulling towards the future with a responsible
conclusion to this painful chapter in our Nation's history. Mr. President, let this be the day
when we finally send a message that is so clear and so emphatic that it cannot be ignored.
Thank you, Mr. President. I yield the floor.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329507" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Senate_Speech_on_Ohio_Electoral_Vote.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Senate%20Speech%20on%20Ohio%20Electoral%20Vote.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Senate Floor Speech on Ohio Electoral Vote Counting Procedures
Delivered 6 January 2005, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you very much, Mr. President; Ladies and Gentlemen of the Senate:
I have to say that I didn't anticipate speaking today, but the importance, I think, of this issue
is one in which I feel it's important for me to address this body.
You know, during the election I had the occasion of meeting a woman who had supported me
in my campaign. And she decided to come to shake my hand and take a photograph. A
wonderful woman, she wasn't asking for anything, and I was very grateful that she took time
to come by. It was a[n] unexceptional moment except for the fact that she was born in 1894.
And her name was Marguerite Lewis, an African-American woman who had been born in
Louisiana, born in the shadow of slavery, born at a time when lynchings were commonplace,
born at a time when African-Americans and women could not vote.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And yet, over the course of decades she had participated in broadening our democracy and
ensuring that, in fact, at some point, if not herself, then her children and her grandchildren
and her great-grandchildren would be in a position in which they could, too, call themselves
citizens of the United States and make certain that this Government works not just on behalf
of the mighty and the powerful but also on behalf of people like her.
And so the fact that she voted and that her vote was counted in this election was of supreme
importance to her and it is the memory of talking to her and shaking her hand that causes me
to rise on this occasion.
I am absolutely convinced that the President of the United States, George Bush, won this
election. I also believe that he got more votes in Ohio. I think, as has already been said by
some of the speakers in this body, this is not an issue in which we are challenging the
outcome of the election. And I think it's important for us to separate out the issue of the
election outcome with the election process.
I was not in this body four years ago, but what I observed as a voter, as a citizen of Illinois
four years ago, were troubling evidence of the fact that not every vote was being counted.
And I think that it is unfortunate four years later that we continue to see circumstances in
which people who believe that they have the right to vote -- who show up at the polls -- still
continue to confront the sort of problems that have been documented as taking place, not just
in Ohio, but [in] places all across the country.
I would strongly urge that this Chamber, as well as the House of Representatives, take it upon
itself once and for all to reform this system. There is no reason, at a time when we have
enormous battles taking place ideologically all across the globe, at a time when we're try to
make certain that we encourage democracy in Iraq and Afghanistan and other places
throughout the world, that we have the legitimacy of our elections challenged, rightly or
wrongly, by people who are not certain as to whether our processes are fair and just. This is
something that we can fix. We have experts on both sides of the aisle who know how to fix it.
What we've lacked is the political will.
I would strongly urge that, in a circumstance in which too many voters have stood in long
lines for hours, in which too many voters have cast votes on machines that jam or malfunction
or suck the votes without a trace, in which too many voters try to register to vote only to
discover that their names don't appear on the roles, or that partisan political interests and
those that serve them have worked hard to throw up every barrier to recognize them as
lawful, in which too many voters will know that there are different elections for different parts

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
of the country and that these differences turn shamefully on differences of wealth or of race,
in which too many voters have to contend with state officials, servants of the public, who put
partisan or personal political interests ahead of the public in administering our elections -- in
such circumstances, we have an obligation to fix the problem.
And I have to add that this is not a problem unique to this election, and it is not a partisan
problem. Keep in mind, I come from Cook County, from Chicago, in which there is a long
record of these kinds of problems taking place and disadvantaging Republicans as well as
Democrats. So I would ask that all of us rise up and use this occasion to amend this problem.
Thank you.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/16/21

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329791" filename="Barack_Obama_-_START_Treaty_Presser.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20START%20Treaty%20Presser.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
START Treaty Signing Joint Presser with President Medvedev
delivered 08 April 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

President Obama: Good afternoon, everyone. I am honored to be back here in the Czech Republic with
President Medvedev and our Czech hosts to mark this historic completion of the New START treaty.
Let me begin by saying how happy I am to be back in the beautiful city of Prague. The Czech Republic, of
course, is a close friend and ally of the United States, and I have great admiration and affection for the
Czech people. Their bonds with the American people are deep and enduring, and Czechs have made great
contributions to the United States over many decades -- including in my hometown of Chicago. I want to
thank the President and all those involved in helping to host this extraordinary event.
I want to thank my friend and partner, Dmitry Medvedev. Without his personal efforts and strong leadership,
we would not be here today. We’ve met and spoken by phone many times throughout the negotiations of
this treaty, and as a consequence we’ve developed a very effective working relationship built on candor,
cooperation, and mutual respect.
One year ago this week, I came here to Prague and gave a speech outlining America’s comprehensive
commitment to stopping the spread of nuclear weapons and seeking the ultimate goal of a world without
them. I said then -- and I will repeat now -- that this is a long-term goal, one that may not even be achieved
in my lifetime. But I believed then -- as I do now -- that the pursuit of that goal will move us further beyond
the Cold War, strengthen the global non-proliferation regime, and make the United States, and the world,
safer and more secure. One of the steps that I called for last year was the realization of this treaty, so it’s
very gratifying to be back in Prague today.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
I also came to office committed to “resetting” relations between the United States and Russia, and I know
that President Medvedev shared that commitment. As he said at our first meeting in London, our
relationship had started to drift, making it difficult to cooperate on issues of common interest to our people.
And when the United States and Russia are not able to work together on big issues, it’s not good for either
of our nations, nor is it good for the world.
Together, we’ve stopped that drift, and proven the benefits of cooperation. Today is an important milestone
for nuclear security and non-proliferation, and for U.S.-Russia relations. It fulfills our common objective to
negotiate a new Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty. It includes significant reductions in the nuclear weapons
that we will deploy. It cuts our delivery vehicles by roughly half. It includes a comprehensive verification
regime, which allows us to further build trust. It enables both sides the flexibility to protect our security, as
well as America’s unwavering commitment to the security of our European allies. And I look forward to
working with the United States Senate to achieve ratification for this important treaty later this year.
Finally, this day demonstrates the determination of the United States and Russia -- the two nations that hold
over 90 percent of the world’s nuclear weapons -- to pursue responsible global leadership. Together, we
are keeping our commitments under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, which must be the foundation for
global non-proliferation.
While the New START treaty is an important first step forward, it is just one step on a longer journey. As I
said last year in Prague, this treaty will set the stage for further cuts. And going forward, we hope to pursue
discussions with Russia on reducing both our strategic and tactical weapons, including non-deployed
weapons.
President Medvedev and I have also agreed to expand our discussions on missile defense. This will include
regular exchanges of information about our threat assessments, as well as the completion of a joint
assessment of emerging ballistic missiles. And as these assessments are completed, I look forward to
launching a serious dialogue about Russian-American cooperation on missile defense.
But nuclear weapons are not simply an issue for the United States and Russia -- they threaten the common
security of all nations. A nuclear weapon in the hands of a terrorist is a danger to people everywhere -- from
Moscow to New York; from the cities of Europe to South Asia. So next week, 47 nations will come together
in Washington to discuss concrete steps that can be taken to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials around
the world in four years.
And the spread of nuclear weapons to more states is also an unacceptable risk to global security -- raising
the specter of arms races from the Middle East to East Asia. Earlier this week, the United States formally
changed our policy to make it clear that those [non]-nuclear weapons states that are in compliance with the
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and their non-proliferation obligations will not be threatened by America’s
nuclear arsenal. This demonstrates, once more, America’s commitment to the NPT as a cornerstone of our
security strategy. Those nations that follow the rules will find greater security and opportunity. Those
nations that refuse to meet their obligations will be isolated, and denied the opportunity that comes with
international recognition.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That includes accountability for those that break the rules -- otherwise the NPT is just words on a page.
That’s why the United States and Russia are part of a coalition of nations insisting that the Islamic Republic
of Iran face consequences, because they have continually failed to meet their obligations. We are working
together at the United Nations Security Council to pass strong sanctions on Iran. And we will not tolerate
actions that flout the NPT, risk an arms race in a vital region, and threaten the credibility of the international
community and our collective security.
While these issues are a top priority, they are only one part of the U.S.-Russia relationship. Today, I again
expressed my deepest condolences for the terrible loss of Russian life in recent terrorist attacks, and we will
remain steadfast partners in combating violent extremism. We also discussed the potential to expand our
cooperation on behalf of economic growth, trade and investment, as well as technological innovation, and I
look forward to discussing these issues further when President Medvedev visits the United States later this
year, because there is much we can do on behalf of our security and prosperity if we continue to work
together.
When one surveys the many challenges that we face around the world, it’s easy to grow complacent, or to
abandon the notion that progress can be shared. But I want to repeat what I said last year in Prague:
When nations and peoples allow themselves to be defined by their differences, the gulf between them
widens. When we fail to pursue peace, then it stays forever beyond our grasp.
This majestic city of Prague is in many ways a monument to human progress. And this ceremony is a
testament to the truth that old adversaries can forge new partnerships. I could not help but be struck the
other day by the words of Arkady Brish, who helped build the Soviet Union’s first atom bomb. At the age of
92, having lived to see the horrors of a World War and the divisions of a Cold War, he said, “We hope
humanity will reach the moment when there is no need for nuclear weapons, when there is peace and calm
in the world.”
It’s easy to dismiss those voices. But doing so risks repeating the horrors of the past, while ignoring the
history of human progress. The pursuit of peace and calm and cooperation among nations is the work of
both leaders and peoples in the 21st century. For we must be as persistent and passionate in our pursuit of
progress as any who would stand in our way.
Once again, President Medvedev, thank you for your extraordinary leadership.
[Address by Medvedev - deleted text and audio]
President Obama: ...from missiles launched from third countries. We recognize, however, that Russia has
a significant interest in this issue, and what we’ve committed to doing is to engaging in a significant
discussion not only bilaterally but also having discussions with our European allies and others about a
framework in which we can potentially cooperate on issues of missile defense in a way that preserves U.S.
national security interests, preserves Russia’s national security interests, and allows us to guard against a
rogue missile from any source.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I’m actually optimistic that having completed this treaty, which signals our strong commitment to a
reduction in overall nuclear weapons, and that I believe is going to strengthen the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty regime, that sends a signal around the world that the United States and Russia are prepared to once
again take leadership in moving in the direction of reducing reliance on nuclear weapons and preventing the
spread of nuclear weapons, as well as nuclear materials, that we will have built the kind of trust not only
between Presidents but also between governments and between peoples that allows us to move forward in
a constructive way.
I’ve repeatedly said that we will not do anything that endangers or limits my ability as Commander-in-Chief
to protect the American people. And we think that missile defense can be an important component of that.
But we also want to make clear that the approach that we’ve taken in no way is intended to change the
strategic balance between the United States and Russia. And I’m actually confident that, moving forward,
as we have these discussions, it will be part of a broader set of discussions about, for example, how we can
take tactical nuclear weapons out of theater, the possibilities of us making more significant cuts not only in
deployed but also non-deployed missiles. There are a whole range of issues that I think that we can make
significant progress on. I'm confident that this is an important first step in that direction.
[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]
Reporter's Question [in Russian and translated to English]: I have two questions. To each of the
Presidents, one. The first is to Mr. Obama. Moscow and Washington, not for the first time, agree on a
reduction of strategic offensive arms, but as you have mentioned, Russia and the United States are not the
only countries having nuclear weapons. So how specifically can the documents achieved -- well, similar to
today’s document on limitation on nuclear arms -- how soon we will see others sign this document? And will
you move along this track together with Russia? And to the President of the Russian Federation, you have
mentioned the fact that sometimes there’s an impression that Moscow and Washington are unable to agree
on anything else but a mutual reduction of arms. So will we see any things that will counter such a
statement? And what will the agreement be?
President Obama: First of all, as I mentioned in my opening remarks, the United States and Russia
account for 90 percent of the world’s nuclear weapons. And given this legacy of the Cold War, it is critical
for us to show significant leadership. That, I think, is what we’ve begun to do with this follow-on START
treaty.
Other countries are going to have to be making a series of decisions about how they approach the issue of
their nuclear weapons stockpiles. And as I’ve repeatedly said, and I'm sure Dmitry feels the same way with
respect to his country, we are going to preserve our nuclear deterrent so long as other countries have
nuclear weapons, and we are going to make sure that that stockpile is safe and secure and effective.
But I do believe that as we look out into the 21st century, that more and more countries will come to
recognize that the most important factors in providing security and peace to their citizens will depend on
their economic growth, will depend on the capacity of the international community to resolve conflicts; it will
depend on having a strong conventional military that can protect our nations’ borders; and that nuclear
weapons increasingly in an interdependent world will make less and less sense as the cornerstone of
security policy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
But that’s going to take some time, and I think each country is going to have to make its own
determinations. The key is for the United States and Russia to show leadership on this front because we
are so far ahead of every nation with respect to possession of nuclear weapons.
The primary concerns that we identified in a recent Nuclear Posture Review, essentially a declaratory
statement of U.S. policy with respect to nuclear weapons, said that our biggest concerns right now are
actually the issues of nuclear terrorism and nuclear proliferation -- more countries obtaining nuclear
weapons; those weapons being less controllable, less secure; nuclear materials floating around the globe.
And that’s going to be a major topic of the discussion that we have in Washington on Monday.
The United States and Russia have a history already, a decade-long history, of locking down loose nuclear
materials. I believe that our ability to move forward already on sanctions with respect to North Korea, the
intense discussions that we’re having with respect to Iran, will increasingly send a signal to countries that
are not abiding by their Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty obligations, that they will be isolated. All those
things will go toward sending a general message that we need to move in a new direction. And I think
leadership on that front is important.
Last point I'll make, I will just anticipate or coach the question about other areas of cooperation. Our
respective foreign ministers -- Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Foreign Minister Lavrov -- have been
heading a bilateral commission that has been working intensively on a whole range of issue. And President
Medvedev and myself identified a series of key areas on the economic front, in trade relations, the potential
for joint cooperation on various industries, how we can work on innovation and sparking economic growth.
We've already worked together closely in the G20; I think we can build on that bilaterally.
There are issues of counterterrorism that are absolutely critical to both of us, and I just want to repeat how
horrified all of America was at the recent attacks in Moscow. We recognize that that's a problem that can
happen anywhere at any time, and it’s important for Russia and the United States to work closely on those
issues.
And then there are people-to-people contacts and figuring out how we can make sure that there’s more
interaction and exchange between our two countries on a whole range of issues within civil society.
So I'm very optimistic that we're going to continue to make progress on all of these fronts. But I think we
should take pride in this particular accomplishment because it speaks not only to the security of our two
nations but also the security of the world as a whole.
[President Medvedev's response - deleted text and audio]
Reporter's Question: Thank you, President Medvedev and President Obama. For President Obama first,
could you elaborate on how the yearlong negotiations over the New START treaty have advanced U.S.
cooperation with Russia on Iran, and give us a sense of when you will pursue, move forward in the United
Nations and next week with sanctions discussions, and what those sanctions might look like? And for
President Medvedev, could you address whether Russia could accept sanctions against Iran specifically
dealing with its energy industry and energy sector? Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Discussions about sanctions on Iran have been moving forward over the last several
weeks. In fact, they’ve been moving forward over the last several months. We’re going to start seeing
some ramped-up negotiations taking place in New York in the coming weeks. And my expectation is that
we are going to be able to secure strong, tough sanctions on Iran this spring.
Now, I think there are two ways in which these START negotiations have advanced or at least influenced
Russia-U.S. discussions around Iran. The first is obviously that President Medvedev and I have been able
to build up a level of trust and our teams have been able to work together in such a way that we can be
frank, we can be clear, and that helped to facilitate, then, our ability, for example, to work together jointly to
present to Iran reasonable options that would allow it to clearly distance itself from nuclear weapons and
pursue a path of peaceful nuclear energy.
That wasn’t just an approach that was taken by the United States and Russia, but it was an approach taken
by the P5-plus-1 as well as the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA.
So what we’ve seen from the start is that a host of countries, but -- led by countries like the United States
and Russia, have said to Iran, we are willing to work through diplomatic channels to resolve this issue. And
unfortunately, Iran has consistently rebuffed our approach. And I think that Russia has been a very strong
partner in saying that it has no interest in bringing down Iranian society or the Iranian government, but it
does have an interest, as we all do, in making sure that each country is following its international
obligations.
The second way in which I think the START treaty has influenced our discussions about Iran is it’s sent a
strong signal that the United States and Iran -- or the United States and Russia are following our own
obligations under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty, and that our interest in Iran or North Korea or any
other country following the NPT is not based on singling out any one country, but rather sends a strong
signal that all of us have an obligation, each country has an obligation to follow the rules of the road
internationally to ensure a more secure future for our children and our grandchildren.
And so I think the fact that we are signing this treaty, the fact that we are willing, as the two leading nuclear
powers, to continually work on reducing our own arsenals, I think should indicate the fact that we are willing
to be bound by our obligations, and we’re not asking any other countries to do anything different, but simply
to follow the rules of the road that have been set forth and have helped to maintain at least a lack of the use
of nuclear weapons over the last several decades, despite, obviously, the Cold War.
And the concern that I have in particular, a concern that I think is the most profound security threat to the
United States, is that with further proliferation of nuclear weapons, with states obtaining nuclear weapons
and potentially using them to blackmail other countries or potentially not securing them effectively or passing
them on to terrorist organizations, that we could find ourselves in a world in which not only state actors but
also potentially non-state actors are in possession of nuclear weapons, and even if they don’t use them,
would then be in a position to terrorize the world community.
That’s why this issue is so important, and that’s why we are going to be pushing very hard to make sure that
both smart and strong sanctions end up being in place soon to send a signal to Iran and other countries that
this is an issue that the international community takes seriously.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]
[Reporter's Question - deleted text and audio]
[President Medvedev's Response - deleted text and audio]

President Obama: The United States Senate has the obligation of reviewing any treaty and, ultimately,
ratifying it. Fortunately there is a strong history of bipartisanship when it comes to the evaluation of
international treaties, particularly arms control treaties.
And so I have already engaged in consultation with the chairmen of the relevant committees in the United
States Senate. We are going to broaden that consultation now that this treaty has been signed. My
understanding is, is that both in Russia and the United States, it’s going to be posed on the Internet,
appropriate to a 21st century treaty. And so people not only within government but also the general public
will be able to review, in an open and transparent fashion, what it is that we’ve agreed to.
I think what they will discover is that this is a well-crafted treaty that meets the interests of both countries;
that meets the interests of the world in the United States and Russia reducing its nuclear arsenals and
setting the stage for potentially further reductions in the future.
And so I'm actually quite confident that Democrats and Republicans in the United States Senate, having
reviewed this, will see that the United States has preserved its core national security interests, that it is
maintaining a safe and secure and effective nuclear deterrent, but that we are beginning to once again
move forward, leaving the Cold War behind, to address new challenges in new ways. And I think the
START treaty represents an important first step in that direction, and I feel confident that we are going to be
able to get it ratified.
All right? Thank you very much, everybody.
President Medvedev: Thank you, sir. Next time.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329628" filename="Barack_Obama_-_State_of_the_Nation_2009.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20State%20of%20the%20Nation%202009.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
State of the Nation Address to a Joint Session of Congress

Delivered 24 February 2009

Madame Speaker, Mr. Vice President, Members of Congress, and the First Lady of the United States:
I’ve come here tonight not only to address the distinguished men and women in this great chamber, but to
speak frankly and directly to the men and women who sent us here.
I know that for many Americans watching right now, the state of our economy is a concern that rises above
all others. And rightly so. If you haven’t been personally affected by this recession, you probably know
someone who has ­­ a friend; a neighbor; a member of your family. You don’t need to hear another list of
statistics to know that our economy is in crisis, because you live it every day. It’s the worry you wake up
with and the source of sleepless nights. It’s the job you thought you’d retire from but now have lost; the
business you built your dreams upon that’s now hanging by a thread; the college acceptance letter your
child had to put back in the envelope. The impact of this recession is real, and it is everywhere.
But while our economy may be weakened and our confidence shaken; though we are living through difficult
and uncertain times, tonight I want every American to know this:
We will rebuild, we will recover, and the United States of America will emerge stronger than before.
The weight of this crisis will not determine the destiny of this nation. The answers to our problems don’t lie
beyond our reach. They exist in our laboratories and universities; in our fields and our factories; in the
imaginations of our entrepreneurs and the pride of the hardest­working people on Earth. Those qualities
that have made America the greatest force of progress and prosperity in human history we still possess in
ample measure. What is required now is for this country to pull together, confront boldly the challenges we
face, and take responsibility for our future once more.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, if we’re honest with ourselves, we’ll admit that for too long, we have not always met these
responsibilities ­­ as a government or as a people. I say this not to lay blame or look backwards, but
because it is only by understanding how we arrived at this moment that we’ll be able to lift ourselves out of
this predicament.
The fact is, our economy did not fall into decline overnight. Nor did all of our problems begin when the
housing market collapsed or the stock market sank. We have known for decades that our survival depends
on finding new sources of energy. Yet we import more oil today than ever before. The cost of health care
eats up more and more of our savings each year, yet we keep delaying reform. Our children will compete
for jobs in a global economy that too many of our schools do not prepare them for. And though all these
challenges went unsolved, we still managed to spend more money and pile up more debt, both as
individuals and through our government, than ever before.
In other words, we have lived through an era where too often, short­term gains were prized over long­term
prosperity; where we failed to look beyond the next payment, the next quarter, or the next election. A
surplus became an excuse to transfer wealth to the wealthy instead of an opportunity to invest in our future.
Regulations were gutted for the sake of a quick profit at the expense of a healthy market. People bought
homes they knew they couldn’t afford from banks and lenders who pushed those bad loans anyway. And all
the while, critical debates and difficult decisions were put off for some other time on some other day.
Well that day of reckoning has arrived, and the time to take charge of our future is here.
Now is the time to act boldly and wisely ­­ to not only revive this economy, but to build a new foundation for
lasting prosperity. Now is the time to jumpstart job creation, re­start lending, and invest in areas like energy,
health care, and education that will grow our economy, even as we make hard choices to bring our deficit
down. That is what my economic agenda is designed to do, and that’s what I’d like to talk to you about
tonight.
It’s an agenda that begins with jobs.
As soon as I took office, I asked this Congress to send me a recovery plan by President’s Day that would
put people back to work and put money in their pockets. Not because I believe in bigger government – I
don’t. Not because I’m not mindful of the massive debt we’ve inherited – I am. I called for action because
the failure to do so would have cost more jobs and caused more hardships. In fact, a failure to act would
have worsened our long­term deficit by assuring weak economic growth for years. That’s why I pushed for
quick action. And tonight, I am grateful that this Congress delivered, and pleased to say that the American
Recovery and Reinvestment Act is now law.
Over the next two years, this plan will save or create 3.5 million jobs. More than 90% of these jobs will be in
the private sector – jobs rebuilding our roads and bridges; constructing wind turbines and solar panels;
laying broadband and expanding mass transit.
Because of this plan, there are teachers who can now keep their jobs and educate our kids. Health care
professionals can continue caring for our sick. There are 57 police officers who are still on the streets of
Minneapolis tonight because this plan prevented the layoffs their department was about to make.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Because of this plan, 95% of the working households in America will receive a tax cut ­­ a tax cut that you
will see in your paychecks beginning on April 1st.
Because of this plan, families who are struggling to pay tuition costs will receive a $2,500 tax credit for all
four years of college. And Americans who have lost their jobs in this recession will be able to receive
extended unemployment benefits and continued health care coverage to help them weather this storm.
I know there are some in this chamber and watching at home who are skeptical of whether this plan will
work. I understand that skepticism. Here in Washington, we’ve all seen how quickly good intentions can
turn into broken promises and wasteful spending. And with a plan of this scale comes enormous
responsibility to get it right.
That is why I have asked Vice President Biden to lead a tough, unprecedented oversight effort – because
nobody messes with Joe. I have told each member of my Cabinet as well as mayors and governors across
the country that they will be held accountable by me and the American people for every dollar they spend. I
have appointed a proven and aggressive Inspector General to ferret out any and all cases of waste and
fraud. And we have created a new website called recovery.gov so that every American can find out how
and where their money is being spent.
So the recovery plan we passed is the first step in getting our economy back on track. But it is just the first
step. Because even if we manage this plan flawlessly, there will be no real recovery unless we clean up the
credit crisis that has severely weakened our financial system.
I want to speak plainly and candidly about this issue tonight, because every American should know that it
directly affects you and your family’s well­being. You should also know that the money you’ve deposited in
banks across the country is safe; your insurance is secure; and you can rely on the continued operation of
our financial system. That is not the source of concern.
The concern is that if we do not re­start lending in this country, our recovery will be choked off before it even
begins.
You see, the flow of credit is the lifeblood of our economy. The ability to get a loan is how you finance the
purchase of everything from a home to a car to a college education; how stores stock their shelves, farms
buy equipment, and businesses make payroll.
But credit has stopped flowing the way it should. Too many bad loans from the housing crisis have made
their way onto the books of too many banks. With so much debt and so little confidence, these banks are
now fearful of lending out any more money to households, to businesses, or to each other. When there is
no lending, families can’t afford to buy homes or cars. So businesses are forced to make layoffs. Our
economy suffers even more, and credit dries up even further.
That is why this administration is moving swiftly and aggressively to break this destructive cycle, restore
confidence, and re­start lending.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We will do so in several ways. First, we are creating a new lending fund that represents the largest effort
ever to help provide auto loans, college loans, and small business loans to the consumers and
entrepreneurs who keep this economy running.
Second, we have launched a housing plan that will help responsible families facing the threat of foreclosure
lower their monthly payments and re­finance their mortgages. It’s a plan that won’t help speculators or that
neighbor down the street who bought a house he could never hope to afford, but it will help millions of
Americans who are struggling with declining home values – Americans who will now be able to take
advantage of the lower interest rates that this plan has already helped bring about. In fact, the average
family who re­finances today can save nearly $2000 per year on their mortgage.
Third, we will act with the full force of the federal government to ensure that the major banks that Americans
depend on have enough confidence and enough money to lend even in more difficult times. And when we
learn that a major bank has serious problems, we will hold accountable those responsible, force the
necessary adjustments, provide the support to clean up their balance sheets, and assure the continuity of a
strong, viable institution that can serve our people and our economy.
I understand that on any given day, Wall Street may be more comforted by an approach that gives banks
bailouts with no strings attached, and that holds nobody accountable for their reckless decisions. But such
an approach won’t solve the problem. And our goal is to quicken the day when we re­start lending to the
American people and American business and end this crisis once and for all.
I intend to hold these banks fully accountable for the assistance they receive, and this time, they will have to
clearly demonstrate how taxpayer dollars result in more lending for the American taxpayer. This time, CEOs
won’t be able to use taxpayer money to pad their paychecks or buy fancy drapes or disappear on a private
jet. Those days are over.
Still, this plan will require significant resources from the federal government – and yes, probably more than
we’ve already set aside. But while the cost of action will be great, I can assure you that the cost of inaction
will be far greater, for it could result in an economy that sputters along for not months or years, but perhaps
a decade. That would be worse for our deficit, worse for business, worse for you, and worse for the next
generation. And I refuse to let that happen.
I understand that when the last administration asked this Congress to provide assistance for struggling
banks, Democrats and Republicans alike were infuriated by the mismanagement and results that followed.
So were the American taxpayers. So was I.
So I know how unpopular it is to be seen as helping banks right now, especially when everyone is suffering
in part from their bad decisions. I promise you – I get it.
But I also know that in a time of crisis, we cannot afford to govern out of anger, or yield to the politics of the
moment. My job – our job – is to solve the problem. Our job is to govern with a sense of responsibility. I
will not spend a single penny for the purpose of rewarding a single Wall Street executive, but I will do
whatever it takes to help the small business that can’t pay its workers or the family that has saved and still
can’t get a mortgage.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
That’s what this is about. It’s not about helping banks – it’s about helping people. Because when credit is
available again, that young family can finally buy a new home. And then some company will hire workers to
build it. And then those workers will have money to spend, and if they can get a loan too, maybe they’ll
finally buy that car, or open their own business. Investors will return to the market, and American families
will see their retirement secured once more. Slowly, but surely, confidence will return, and our economy will
recover.
So I ask this Congress to join me in doing whatever proves necessary. Because we cannot consign our
nation to an open­ended recession. And to ensure that a crisis of this magnitude never happens again, I
ask Congress to move quickly on legislation that will finally reform our outdated regulatory system. It is time
to put in place tough, new common­sense rules of the road so that our financial market rewards drive and
innovation, and punishes short­cuts and abuse.
The recovery plan and the financial stability plan are the immediate steps we’re taking to revive our
economy in the short­term. But the only way to fully restore America’s economic strength is to make the
long­term investments that will lead to new jobs, new industries, and a renewed ability to compete with the
rest of the world. The only way this century will be another American century is if we confront at last the
price of our dependence on oil and the high cost of health care; the schools that aren’t preparing our
children and the mountain of debt they stand to inherit. That is our responsibility.
In the next few days, I will submit a budget to Congress. So often, we have come to view these documents
as simply numbers on a page or laundry lists of programs. I see this document differently. I see it as a
vision for America – as a blueprint for our future.
My budget does not attempt to solve every problem or address every issue. It reflects the stark reality of
what we’ve inherited – a trillion dollar deficit, a financial crisis, and a costly recession.
Given these realities, everyone in this chamber – Democrats and Republicans – will have to sacrifice some
worthy priorities for which there are no dollars. And that includes me.
But that does not mean we can afford to ignore our long­term challenges. I reject the view that says our
problems will simply take care of themselves; that says government has no role in laying the foundation for
our common prosperity.
For history tells a different story. History reminds us that at every moment of economic upheaval and
transformation, this nation has responded with bold action and big ideas. In the midst of civil war, we laid
railroad tracks from one coast to another that spurred commerce and industry. From the turmoil of the
Industrial Revolution came a system of public high schools that prepared our citizens for a new age. In the
wake of war and depression, the GI Bill sent a generation to college and created the largest middle­class in
history. And a twilight struggle for freedom led to a nation of highways, an American on the moon, and an
explosion of technology that still shapes our world.
In each case, government didn’t supplant private enterprise; it catalyzed private enterprise. It created the
conditions for thousands of entrepreneurs and new businesses to adapt and to thrive.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We are a nation that has seen promise amid peril, and claimed opportunity from ordeal. Now we must be
that nation again. That is why, even as it cuts back on the programs we don’t need, the budget I submit will
invest in the three areas that are absolutely critical to our economic future: energy, health care, and
education.
It begins with energy.
We know the country that harnesses the power of clean, renewable energy will lead the 21st century. And
yet, it is China that has launched the largest effort in history to make their economy energy efficient. We
invented solar technology, but we’ve fallen behind countries like Germany and Japan in producing it. New
plug­in hybrids roll off our assembly lines, but they will run on batteries made in Korea.
Well I do not accept a future where the jobs and industries of tomorrow take root beyond our borders – and I
know you don’t either. It is time for America to lead again.
Thanks to our recovery plan, we will double this nation’s supply of renewable energy in the next three
years. We have also made the largest investment in basic research funding in American history – an
investment that will spur not only new discoveries in energy, but breakthroughs in medicine, science, and
technology.
We will soon lay down thousands of miles of power lines that can carry new energy to cities and towns
across this country. And we will put Americans to work making our homes and buildings more efficient so
that we can save billions of dollars on our energy bills.
But to truly transform our economy, protect our security, and save our planet from the ravages of climate
change, we need to ultimately make clean, renewable energy the profitable kind of energy. So I ask this
Congress to send me legislation that places a market­based cap on carbon pollution and drives the
production of more renewable energy in America. And to support that innovation, we will invest fifteen
billion dollars a year to develop technologies like wind power and solar power; advanced biofuels, clean
coal, and more fuel­efficient cars and trucks built right here in America.
As for our auto industry, everyone recognizes that years of bad decision­making and a global recession
have pushed our automakers to the brink. We should not, and will not, protect them from their own bad
practices. But we are committed to the goal of a re­tooled, re­imagined auto industry that can compete and
win. Millions of jobs depend on it. Scores of communities depend on it. And I believe the nation that
invented the automobile cannot walk away from it.
None of this will come without cost, nor will it be easy. But this is America. We don’t do what’s easy. We
do what is necessary to move this country forward.
For that same reason, we must also address the crushing cost of health care.
This is a cost that now causes a bankruptcy in America every thirty seconds.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
By the end of the year, it could cause 1.5 million Americans to lose their homes. In the last eight years,
premiums have grown four times faster than wages. And in each of these years, one million more
Americans have lost their health insurance. It is one of the major reasons why small businesses close their
doors and corporations ship jobs overseas. And it’s one of the largest and fastest­growing parts of our
budget.
Given these facts, we can no longer afford to put health care reform on hold.
Already, we have done more to advance the cause of health care reform in the last thirty days than we have
in the last decade. When it was days old, this Congress passed a law to provide and protect health
insurance for eleven million American children whose parents work full­time. Our recovery plan will invest in
electronic health records and new technology that will reduce errors, bring down costs, ensure privacy, and
save lives. It will launch a new effort to conquer a disease that has touched the life of nearly every
American by seeking a cure for cancer in our time. And it makes the largest investment ever in preventive
care, because that is one of the best ways to keep our people healthy and our costs under control.
This budget builds on these reforms. It includes an historic commitment to comprehensive health care
reform – a down­payment on the principle that we must have quality, affordable health care for every
American. It’s a commitment that’s paid for in part by efficiencies in our system that are long overdue. And
it’s a step we must take if we hope to bring down our deficit in the years to come.
Now, there will be many different opinions and ideas about how to achieve reform, and that is why I’m
bringing together businesses and workers, doctors and health care providers, Democrats and Republicans
to begin work on this issue next week.
I suffer no illusions that this will be an easy process. It will be hard. But I also know that nearly a century
after Teddy Roosevelt first called for reform, the cost of our health care has weighed down our economy and
the conscience of our nation long enough. So let there be no doubt: health care reform cannot wait, it must
not wait, and it will not wait another year.
The third challenge we must address is the urgent need to expand the promise of education in America.
In a global economy where the most valuable skill you can sell is your knowledge, a good education is no
longer just a pathway to opportunity – it is a pre­requisite.
Right now, three­quarters of the fastest­growing occupations require more than a high school diploma. And
yet, just over half of our citizens have that level of education. We have one of the highest high school
dropout rates of any industrialized nation. And half of the students who begin college never finish.
This is a prescription for economic decline, because we know the countries that out­teach us today will out­
compete us tomorrow. That is why it will be the goal of this administration to ensure that every child has
access to a complete and competitive education – from the day they are born to the day they begin a
career.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Already, we have made an historic investment in education through the economic recovery plan. We have
dramatically expanded early childhood education and will continue to improve its quality, because we know
that the most formative learning comes in those first years of life. We have made college affordable for
nearly seven million more students. And we have provided the resources necessary to prevent painful cuts
and teacher layoffs that would set back our children’s progress.
But we know that our schools don’t just need more resources. They need more reform. That is why this
budget creates new incentives for teacher performance; pathways for advancement, and rewards for
success. We’ll invest in innovative programs that are already helping schools meet high standards and
close achievement gaps. And we will expand our commitment to charter schools.
It is our responsibility as lawmakers and educators to make this system work. But it is the responsibility of
every citizen to participate in it. And so tonight, I ask every American to commit to at least one year or more
of higher education or career training. This can be community college or a four­year school; vocational
training or an apprenticeship. But whatever the training may be, every American will need to get more than
a high school diploma. And dropping out of high school is no longer an option. It’s not just quitting on
yourself, it’s quitting on your country – and this country needs and values the talents of every American.
That is why we will provide the support necessary for you to complete college and meet a new goal: by
2020, America will once again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.
I know that the price of tuition is higher than ever, which is why if you are willing to volunteer in your
neighborhood or give back to your community or serve your country, we will make sure that you can afford a
higher education. And to encourage a renewed spirit of national service for this and future generations, I
ask this Congress to send me the bipartisan legislation that bears the name of Senator Orrin Hatch as well
as an American who has never stopped asking what he can do for his country – Senator Edward Kennedy.
These education policies will open the doors of opportunity for our children. But it is up to us to ensure they
walk through them. In the end, there is no program or policy that can substitute for a mother or father who
will attend those parent/teacher conferences, or help with homework after dinner, or turn off the TV, put
away the video games, and read to their child. I speak to you not just as a President, but as a father when I
say that responsibility for our children's education must begin at home.
There is, of course, another responsibility we have to our children. And that is the responsibility to ensure
that we do not pass on to them a debt they cannot pay. With the deficit we inherited, the cost of the crisis
we face, and the long­term challenges we must meet, it has never been more important to ensure that as
our economy recovers, we do what it takes to bring this deficit down.
I’m proud that we passed the recovery plan free of earmarks, and I want to pass a budget next year that
ensures that each dollar we spend reflects only our most important national priorities.
Yesterday, I held a fiscal summit where I pledged to cut the deficit in half by the end of my first term in
office. My administration has also begun to go line by line through the federal budget in order to eliminate
wasteful and ineffective programs. As you can imagine, this is a process that will take some time. But we’re
starting with the biggest lines. We have already identified two trillion dollars in savings over the next
decade.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
In this budget, we will end education programs that don’t work and end direct payments to large
agribusinesses that don’t need them. We’ll eliminate the no­bid contracts that have wasted billions in Iraq,
and reform our defense budget so that we’re not paying for Cold War­era weapons systems we don’t use.
We will root out the waste, fraud, and abuse in our Medicare program that doesn’t make our seniors any
healthier, and we will restore a sense of fairness and balance to our tax code by finally ending the tax
breaks for corporations that ship our jobs overseas.
In order to save our children from a future of debt, we will also end the tax breaks for the wealthiest 2% of
Americans. But let me perfectly clear, because I know you’ll hear the same old claims that rolling back
these tax breaks means a massive tax increase on the American people: if your family earns less than
$250,000 a year, you will not see your taxes increased a single dime. I repeat: not one single dime. In fact,
the recovery plan provides a tax cut – that’s right, a tax cut – for 95% of working families. And these checks
are on the way.
To preserve our long­term fiscal health, we must also address the growing costs in Medicare and Social
Security. Comprehensive health care reform is the best way to strengthen Medicare for years to come. And
we must also begin a conversation on how to do the same for Social Security, while creating tax­free
universal savings accounts for all Americans.
Finally, because we’re also suffering from a deficit of trust, I am committed to restoring a sense of honesty
and accountability to our budget. That is why this budget looks ahead ten years and accounts for spending
that was left out under the old rules – and for the first time, that includes the full cost of fighting in Iraq and
Afghanistan. For seven years, we have been a nation at war. No longer will we hide its price.
We are now carefully reviewing our policies in both wars, and I will soon announce a way forward in Iraq
that leaves Iraq to its people and responsibly ends this war.
And with our friends and allies, we will forge a new and comprehensive strategy for Afghanistan and
Pakistan to defeat al Qaeda and combat extremism. Because I will not allow terrorists to plot against the
American people from safe havens half a world away.
As we meet here tonight, our men and women in uniform stand watch abroad and more are readying to
deploy. To each and every one of them, and to the families who bear the quiet burden of their absence,
Americans are united in sending one message: we honor your service, we are inspired by your sacrifice,
and you have our unyielding support. To relieve the strain on our forces, my budget increases the number
of our soldiers and Marines. And to keep our sacred trust with those who serve, we will raise their pay, and
give our veterans the expanded health care and benefits that they have earned.
To overcome extremism, we must also be vigilant in upholding the values our troops defend – because
there is no force in the world more powerful than the example of America. That is why I have ordered the
closing of the detention center at Guantanamo Bay, and will seek swift and certain justice for captured
terrorists – because living our values doesn’t make us weaker, it makes us safer and it makes us stronger.
And that is why I can stand here tonight and say without exception or equivocation that the United States of
America does not torture.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
In words and deeds, we are showing the world that a new era of engagement has begun. For we know that
America cannot meet the threats of this century alone, but the world cannot meet them without America.
We cannot shun the negotiating table, nor ignore the foes or forces that could do us harm. We are instead
called to move forward with the sense of confidence and candor that serious times demand.
To seek progress toward a secure and lasting peace between Israel and her neighbors, we have appointed
an envoy to sustain our effort. To meet the challenges of the 21st century – from terrorism to nuclear
proliferation; from pandemic disease to cyber threats to crushing poverty – we will strengthen old alliances,
forge new ones, and use all elements of our national power.
And to respond to an economic crisis that is global in scope, we are working with the nations of the G­20 to
restore confidence in our financial system, avoid the possibility of escalating protectionism, and spur
demand for American goods in markets across the globe. For the world depends on us to have a strong
economy, just as our economy depends on the strength of the world’s.
As we stand at this crossroads of history, the eyes of all people in all nations are once again upon us –
watching to see what we do with this moment; waiting for us to lead.
Those of us gathered here tonight have been called to govern in extraordinary times. It is a tremendous
burden, but also a great privilege – one that has been entrusted to few generations of Americans. For in our
hands lies the ability to shape our world for good or for ill.
I know that it is easy to lose sight of this truth – to become cynical and doubtful; consumed with the petty
and the trivial.
But in my life, I have also learned that hope is found in unlikely places; that inspiration often comes not from
those with the most power or celebrity, but from the dreams and aspirations of Americans who are anything
but ordinary.
I think about Leonard Abess, the bank president from Miami who reportedly cashed out of his company,
took a $60 million bonus, and gave it out to all 399 people who worked for him, plus another 72 who used to
work for him. He didn’t tell anyone, but when the local newspaper found out, he simply said, ''I knew some
of these people since I was 7 years old. I didn't feel right getting the money myself."
I think about Greensburg, Kansas, a town that was completely destroyed by a tornado, but is being rebuilt
by its residents as a global example of how clean energy can power an entire community – how it can bring
jobs and businesses to a place where piles of bricks and rubble once lay. "The tragedy was terrible," said
one of the men who helped them rebuild. "But the folks here know that it also provided an incredible
opportunity."
And I think about Ty’Sheoma Bethea, the young girl from that school I visited in Dillon, South Carolina – a
place where the ceilings leak, the paint peels off the walls, and they have to stop teaching six times a day
because the train barrels by their classroom. She has been told that her school is hopeless, but the other
day after class she went to the public library and typed up a letter to the people sitting in this room. She
even asked her principal for the money to buy a stamp.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
The letter asks us for help, and says, "We are just students trying to become lawyers, doctors, congressmen
like yourself and one day president, so we can make a change to not just the state of South Carolina but
also the world. We are not quitters."
We are not quitters.
These words and these stories tell us something about the spirit of the people who sent us here. They tell
us that even in the most trying times, amid the most difficult circumstances, there is a generosity, a
resilience, a decency, and a determination that perseveres; a willingness to take responsibility for our future
and for posterity.
Their resolve must be our inspiration. Their concerns must be our cause. And we must show them and all
our people that we are equal to the task before us.
I know that we haven’t agreed on every issue thus far, and there are surely times in the future when we will
part ways. But I also know that every American who is sitting here tonight loves this country and wants it to
succeed. That must be the starting point for every debate we have in the coming months, and where we
return after those debates are done. That is the foundation on which the American people expect us to build
common ground.
And if we do – if we come together and lift this nation from the depths of this crisis; if we put our people back
to work and restart the engine of our prosperity; if we confront without fear the challenges of our time and
summon that enduring spirit of an America that does not quit, then someday years from now our children
can tell their children that this was the time when we performed, in the words that are carved into this very
chamber, "something worthy to be remembered." Thank you, God Bless you, and may God Bless the
United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com

Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329761" filename="Barack_Obama_-_State_of_the_Union_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20State%20of%20the%20Union%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Presidential State of the Union Address

Delivered 27 January 2010, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Madame Speaker, Vice President Biden, Members of Congress, distinguished guests, and
fellow Americans:
Our Constitution declares that from time to time, the President shall give to Congress
information about the state of our union. For two hundred and twenty years, our leaders
[have] fulfilled this duty. They've done so during periods of prosperity and tranquility. And
they've done so in the midst of war and depression ­­ at moments of great strife and great
struggle.
It's tempting to look back on these moments and assume that our progress was inevitable ­­
that America was always destined to succeed. But when the Union was turned back at Bull
Run and the Allies first landed at Omaha Beach, victory was very much in doubt. When the
market crashed on Black Tuesday and civil rights marchers were beaten on Bloody Sunday,
the future was anything but certain. These were the times that tested the courage of our
convictions, and the strength of our union. And despite all our divisions and disagreements,
our hesitations and our fears, America prevailed because we chose to move forward as one
nation, and one people.
Again, we are tested. And again, we must answer history's call. One year ago, I took office
amid two wars, an economy rocked by a severe recession, a financial system on the verge of
collapse, and a government deeply in debt. Experts from across the political spectrum warned
that if we did not act, we might face a second depression. So we acted ­­ immediately and
aggressively. And one year later, the worst of the storm has passed.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
But the devastation remains. One in ten Americans still cannot find work. Many businesses
have shuttered. Home values have declined. Small towns and rural communities have been hit
especially hard. And for those who had already known poverty, life's become that much
harder.
And this recession has also compounded the burdens that America's families have been
dealing with for decades: the burden of working harder and longer for less, of being unable to
save enough to retire, or help kids with college.
So I know the anxieties that are out there right now. They're not new. These struggles are the
reason I ran for President. These struggles are what I've witnessed for years in places like
Elkhart, Indiana; Galesburg, Illinois. I hear about them in the letters that I read each night.
The toughest to read are those written by children, asking why they have to move from their
home, asking or when their mom or dad will be able to go back to work.
For these Americans and so many others, change has not come fast enough. Some are
frustrated; some are angry. They don't understand why it seems like bad behavior on Wall
Street is rewarded but hard work on Main Street isn't; or why Washington has been unable or
unwilling to solve any of our problems. They're tired of the partisanship and the shouting and
the pettiness. They know we can't afford it. Not now.
So we face big and difficult challenges. And what the American people hope ­­ what they
deserve ­­ is for all of us, Democrats and Republicans, to work through our differences; to
overcome the numbing weight of our politics. For while the people who sent us here have
different backgrounds, different stories, different beliefs, the anxieties they face are the same.
The aspirations they hold are shared: a job that pays the bills; a chance to get ahead. Most of
all, the ability to give their children a better life.
And you know what else they share? They share a stubborn resilience in the face of adversity.
After one of the most difficult years in our history, they remain busy building cars and
teaching kids, starting businesses, and going back to school. They're coaching little league
and helping their neighbors. One woman wrote to me and said, "We are strained but hopeful,
struggling but encouraged."
It's because of this spirit ­­ this great decency and great strength ­­ that I have never been
more hopeful about America's future than I am tonight.
Despite our hardships, our union is strong. We do not give up. We do not quit. We do not
allow fear or division to break our spirit. In this new decade, it's time the American people get
a government that matches their decency, that embodies their strength. And tonight I'd like
to talk about how, together, we can deliver on that promise.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It begins with our economy. Our most urgent task upon taking office was to shore up the
same banks that helped cause this crisis. It was not easy to do. And if there's one thing that
has unified Democrats and Republicans ­­ and everybody in between ­­ it's that we all hated
the bank bailout. I hated it ­­ I hated it ­­ I hated it. You hated it. It was about as popular as
a root canal.
But when I ran for President, I promised I wouldn't just do what was popular ­­ I would do
what was necessary. And if we had allowed the meltdown of the financial system,
unemployment might be double what it is today. More businesses would certainly have closed.
More homes would have surely been lost. So I supported the last Administration's efforts to
create the financial rescue program. And when we took the program over, we made it more
transparent and more accountable. And as a result, the markets are now stabilized, and we've
recovered most of the money we spent on the banks.
Most, but not all. To recover the rest, I've proposed a fee on the biggest banks.
Now, I know Wall Street isn't keen on this idea, but if these firms can afford to hand out big
bonuses again, they can afford a modest fee to pay back the taxpayers who rescued them in
their time of need.
Now, as we stabilized the financial system, we also took steps to get our economy growing
again, save as many jobs as possible, and help Americans who had become unemployed.
That's why we extended or increased unemployment benefits for more than 18 million
Americans, made health insurance 65% cheaper for families who get their coverage through
COBRA, and passed 25 different tax cuts.
Now, let me repeat: We cut taxes.
We cut taxes for 95% of working families.
We cut taxes for small businesses.
We cut taxes for first­time homebuyers.
We cut taxes for parents trying to care for their children.
We cut taxes for eight million Americans paying for college.
(I thought I'd get some applause on that one.)
As a result, millions of Americans had more to spend on gas, and food, and other necessities ­
­ all of which helped businesses keep more workers. And we haven't raised income taxes by a
single dime on a single person. Not a single dime.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, because of the steps we took, there are about two million Americans working right now
who would otherwise be unemployed. 200,000 work in construction and clean energy.
300,000 are teachers and other education workers. Tens of thousands are cops, firefighters,
correctional officers, first responders. And we're on track to add another one and a half million
jobs to this total by the end of the year.
The plan that has made all of this possible, from the tax cuts to the jobs, is the Recovery Act.
That's right: the Recovery Act, also known as the Stimulus Bill. Economists on the left and the
right say this bill has helped saved jobs and avert disaster. But you don't have to take their
word for it: Talk to the small business in Phoenix that will triple its workforce because of the
Recovery Act. Talk to the window manufacturer in Philadelphia who said he used to be
skeptical about the Recovery Act, until he had to add two more work shifts just because of the
business it created. Talk to the single teacher raising two kids who was told by her principal in
the last week of school that because of the Recovery Act, she wouldn't be laid off after all.
There are stories like this all across America. And after two years of recession, the economy is
growing again. Retirement funds have started to gain back some of their value. Businesses
are beginning to invest again, and slowly [some] are starting to hire again.
But I realize that for every success story, there are other stories ­­ of men and women who
wake up with the anguish of not knowing where their next paycheck will come from; who send
out resumes week after week and hear nothing in response. That is why jobs must be our
number one focus in 2010. And that's why I'm calling for a new jobs bill tonight!
Now, the true engine of job creation in this country will always be America's businesses. (I
agree. Absolutely). But government can create the conditions necessary for businesses to
expand and hire more workers. We should start where most new jobs do ­­ in small
businesses, companies that begin when an entrepreneur takes a chance on a dream, or a
worker decides its time she became her own boss.
Through sheer grit and determination, these companies have weathered the recession and
they're ready to grow. But when you talk to small business owners in places like Allentown,
Pennsylvania or Elyria, Ohio, you find out that even though banks on Wall Street are lending
again, they're mostly lending to bigger companies. Financing remains difficult for small
business owners across the country ­­ even those that are making a profit.
So tonight, I'm proposing that we take 30 billion dollars of the money Wall Street banks have
repaid and use it to help community banks give small businesses the credit they need to stay
afloat. I'm also proposing a new small business tax credit ­­ one that will go to over one
million small businesses who hire new workers or raise wages. While we're at it, let's also
eliminate all capital gains taxes on small business investment, and provide a tax incentive for
all large businesses and all small businesses to invest in new plants and equipment.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Next, we can put Americans to work today building the infrastructure of tomorrow. From the
first railroads to the interstate highway system, our nation has always been built to compete.
There's no reason Europe or China should have the fastest trains, or the new factories that
manufacture clean energy products.
Tomorrow, I'll visit Tampa, Florida, where workers will soon break ground on a new high­
speed railroad funded by the Recovery Act. There are projects like that all across this country
that will create jobs and help our move our nation's goods, services, and information. We
should put more Americans to work building clean energy facilities, and give rebates to
Americans who make their homes more energy efficient, which supports clean energy jobs.
And to encourage these and other businesses to stay within our borders, it is time to finally
slash the tax breaks for companies that ship our jobs overseas and give those tax breaks to
companies that create jobs right here in the United States of America.
Now, the House has passed a jobs bill that includes some of these steps. As the first order of
business this year, I urge the Senate to do the same ­­ and I know they will. They will. People
are out of work. They're hurting. And they need our help. And I want a jobs bill on my desk
without delay.
But the truth is, these steps still won't make up for the seven million jobs that we've lost over
the last two years. The only way to move to full employment is to lay a new foundation for
long­term economic growth, and finally address the problems that America's families have
confronted for years.
We can't afford another so­called economic "expansion" like the one from the last decade ­­
what some call the "lost decade" ­­ where jobs grew more slowly than during any prior
expansion; where the income of the average American household declined while the cost of
health care and tuition reached record highs; where prosperity was built on a housing bubble
and financial speculation.
From the day I took office, I've been told that addressing our larger challenges is too
ambitious. Such an effort would be too contentious. I've been told that our political system is
too gridlocked, and that we should just put things on hold for awhile. For those who make
these claims, I have one simple question: How long should we wait? How long should America
put its future on hold?
You see, Washington has been telling us to wait for decades, even as the problems have
grown worse. Meanwhile, China's not waiting to revamp its economy. Germany's not waiting.
India's not waiting. These nations ­­ they're not standing still. These nations aren't playing for
second place. They're putting more emphasis on math and science. They're rebuilding their
infrastructure. They're making serious investments in clean energy because they want those
jobs.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Well, I do not accept second­place for the United States of America.
As hard as it may be, as uncomfortable and contentious as the debates may become, it's time
to get serious about fixing the problems that are hampering our growth. Now, one place to
start is serious financial reform. Look, I am not interested in punishing banks. I'm interested
in protecting our economy. A strong, healthy financial market makes it possible for businesses
to access credit and create new jobs. It channels the savings of families into investments that
raise incomes. But that can only happen if we guard against the same recklessness that nearly
brought down our entire economy.
We need to make sure consumers and middle­class families have the information they need to
make financial decisions. We can't allow financial institutions, including those that take your
deposits, to take risks that threaten the whole economy. Now, the House has already passed
financial reform with many of these changes. And the lobbyists are trying to kill it. Well, we
cannot let them win this fight. And if the bill that ends up on my desk does not meet the test
of real reform, I will send it back until we get it right. We've got to get it right.
Next, we need to encourage American innovation. Last year, we made the largest investment
in basic research funding in history, an investment that could lead to the world's cheapest
solar cells or treatment that kills cancer cells but leaves healthy ones untouched. And no area
is more ripe for such innovation than energy. You can see the results of last year's investment
in clean energy in the North Carolina company that will create 1200 jobs nationwide helping to
make advanced batteries, or, in the California business that will put a thousand people to
work making solar panels.
But to create more of these clean energy jobs, we need more production, more efficiency,
more incentives. And that means building a new generation of safe, clean nuclear power
plants in this country. It means making tough decisions about opening new offshore areas for
oil and gas development. It means continued investment in advanced biofuels and clean coal
technologies. And yes, it means passing a comprehensive energy and climate bill with
incentives that will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy in America.
I am grateful to the House for passing such a bill last year. And this year, I am eager to help
advance the bipartisan effort in the Senate. I know there have been questions about whether
we can afford such changes in a tough economy. I know that there are those who disagree
with the overwhelming scientific evidence on climate change. But here's the thing: Even if you
doubt the evidence, providing incentives for energy efficiency and clean energy are the right
thing to do for our future because the nation that leads the clean energy economy will be the
nation that leads the global economy. And America must be that nation.
Third, we need to export more of our goods ­­ because the more products we make and sell to
other countries, the more jobs we support right here in America. So tonight, we set a new
goal: We will double our exports over the next five years, an increase that will support two
million jobs in America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
To help meet this goal, we're launching a National Export Initiative that will help farmers and
small businesses increase their exports, and reform export controls consistent with national
security.
We have to seek new markets aggressively, just as our competitors are. If America sits on the
sidelines while other nations sign trade deals, we will lose the chance to create jobs on our
shores. But realizing those benefits also means enforcing those agreements so our trading
partners play by the rules. And that's why we'll continue to shape a Doha trade agreement
that opens global markets, and why we will strengthen our trade relations in Asia and with key
partners like South Korea and Panama and Colombia.
Fourth, we need to invest in the skills and education of our people.
Now, this year we've broken through the stalemate between left and right by launching a
national competition to improve our schools. And the idea here is simple: instead of rewarding
failure, we only reward success. Instead of funding the status quo, we only invest in reform ­­
reform that raises student achievement, inspires students to excel in math and science, and
turns around failing schools that steal the future of too many young Americans, from rural
communities to the inner city. In the 21st century, the best anti­poverty program around is a
world­class education. And in this country, the success of our children cannot depend more on
where they live than on their potential.
When we renew the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, we will work with Congress to
expand these reforms to all 50 states. Still, in this economy, a high school diploma no longer
guarantees a good job. That's why I urge the Senate to follow the House and pass a bill that
will revitalize our community colleges, which are a career pathway to the children of so many
working families.
To make college more affordable, this bill will finally end the unwarranted taxpayer subsidies
that go to banks for student loans. Instead, let's take that money and give families a 10,000
dollar tax credit for four years of college and increase Pell Grants. And let's tell another one
million students that when they graduate, they will be required to pay only 10 percent of their
income on student loans, and all of their debt will be forgiven after 20 years ­­ and forgiven
after 10 years if they choose a career in public service, because in the United States of
America, no one should go broke because they chose to go to college.
And by the way, it's time for colleges and universities to get serious about cutting their own
costs ­­ because they, too, have a responsibility to help solve this problem.
Now, the price of college tuition is just one of the burdens facing the middle­class. That's why
last year I asked Vice President Biden to chair a task force on Middle­Class Families.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's why we're nearly doubling the child care tax credit, and making it easier to save for
retirement by giving access to every worker a retirement account and expanding the tax
credit for those who start a nest egg. That's why we're working to lift the value of a family's
single largest investment ­­ their home. The steps we took last year to shore up the housing
market have allowed millions of Americans to take out new loans and save an average of 1500
dollars on mortgage payments. This year, we will step up re­financing so that homeowners
can move into more affordable mortgages. And it is precisely to relieve the burden on middle­
class families that we still need health insurance reform. Yes, we do.
Now, let's clear a few things up. I didn't choose to tackle this issue to get some legislative
victory under my belt. And by now it should be fairly obvious that I didn't take on health care
because it was good politics. I took on health care because [of] the stories I've heard from
Americans with preexisting conditions whose lives depend on getting coverage; patients
who've been denied coverage; families ­­ even those with insurance ­­ who are just one
illness away from financial ruin.
After nearly a century of trying ­­ Democratic Administrations, Republican Administrations ­­
we are closer than ever to bringing more security to the lives of so many Americans. The
approach we've taken would protect every American from the worst practices of the insurance
industry. It would give small businesses and uninsured Americans a chance to choose an
affordable health care plan in a competitive market. It would require every insurance plan to
cover preventive care. And by the way, I want to acknowledge our First Lady, Michelle
Obama, who this year is creating a national movement to tackle the epidemic of childhood
obesity and make kids healthier. Thank you. She gets embarrassed.
Our approach would preserve the right of Americans who have insurance to keep their doctor
and their plan. It would reduce costs and premiums for millions of families and
businesses. And according to the Congressional Budget Office ­­ the independent organization
that both parties have cited as the official scorekeeper for Congress ­­ our approach would
bring down the deficit by as much as one trillion dollars over the next two decades.
Still, this is a complexed issue, and the longer it was debated, the more skeptical people
became. I take my share of the blame for not explaining it more clearly to the American
people. And I know that with all the lobbying and horse­trading, the process left most
Americans wondering, "What's in it for me?" But I also know this problem is not going away.
By the time I'm finished speaking tonight, more Americans will have lost their health
insurance. Millions will lose it this year. Our deficit will grow. Premiums will go up. Patients will
be denied the care they need. Small business owners will continue to drop coverage
altogether. I will not walk away from these Americans, and neither should the people in this
chamber.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
So, as temperatures cool, I want everyone to take another look at the plan we've proposed.
There's a reason why many doctors, nurses, and health care experts who know our system
best consider this approach a vast improvement over the status quo. But if anyone from either
party has a better approach that will bring down premiums, bring down the deficit, cover the
uninsured, strengthen Medicare for seniors, and stop insurance company abuses, let me
know. Let me know. Let me know. I'm eager to see it.
Here's what I ask Congress, though: Don't walk away from reform. Not now. Not when we are
so close. Let us find a way to come together and finish the job for the American people. Let's
get it done. Let's get it done.
Now, even as health care reform would reduce our deficit, it's not enough to dig us out of a
massive fiscal hole in which we find ourselves. It's a challenge that makes all others that
much harder to solve, and one that's been subject to a lot of political posturing. So let me
start the discussion of government spending by setting the record straight.
At the beginning of the last decade, the year 2000, America had a budget surplus of over 200
billion dollars. By the time I took office, we had a one­year deficit of over one trillion dollars
and projected deficits of eight trillion dollars over the next decade. Most of this was the result
of not paying for two wars, two tax cuts, and an expensive prescription drug program. On top
of that, the effects of the recession put a three trillion dollar hole in our budget. All this was
before I walked in the door.
Now just stating the facts. Now, if we had taken office in ordinary times, I would have liked
nothing more than to start bringing down the deficit. But we took office amid a crisis. And our
efforts to prevent a second depression have added another one trillion dollars to our national
debt. That, too, is a fact.
I'm absolutely convinced that was the right thing to do. But families across the country are
tightening their belts and making tough decisions. The federal government should do the
same. So tonight, I'm proposing specific steps to pay for the trillion dollars that it took to
rescue the economy last year. Starting in 2011, we are prepared to freeze government
spending for three years. Spending related to our national security, Medicare, Medicaid, and
Social Security will not be affected. But all other discretionary government programs will. Like
any cash­strapped family, we will work within a budget to invest in what we need and sacrifice
what we don't. And if I have to enforce this discipline by veto, I will.
We will continue to go through the budget, line by line, page by page, to eliminate programs
that we can't afford and don't work. We've already identified 20 billion dollars in savings for
next year. To help working families, we'll extend our middle­class tax cuts. But at a time of
record deficits, we will not continue tax cuts for oil companies, for investment fund managers,
and for those making over 250,000 dollars a year. We just can't afford it.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, even after paying for what we spent on my watch, we'll still face the massive deficit we
had when I took office. More importantly, the cost of Medicare, Medicaid, and Social Security
will continue to skyrocket. That's why I've called for a bipartisan fiscal commission, modeled
on a proposal by Republican Judd Gregg and Democrat Kent Conrad. This can't be one of
those Washington gimmicks that lets us pretend we solved a problem. The commission will
have to provide a specific set of solutions by a certain deadline.
Now, yesterday the Senate blocked a bill that would have created this commission. So I'll
issue an executive order that will allow us to go forward, because I refuse to pass this
problem on to another generation of Americans. And when the vote comes tomorrow, the
Senate should restore the pay­as­you­go law that was a big reason for why we had record
surpluses in the 1990s.
Now, I know that some in my own party will argue that we can't address the deficit or freeze
government spending when so many are still hurting. And I agree ­­ which is why this freeze
won't take effect until next year ­­ when the economy is stronger. That's how budgeting
works. But understand, if we don't take meaningful steps to rein in our debt, it could damage
our markets, increase the cost of borrowing, and jeopardize our recovery ­­ all of which would
have an even worse effect on our job growth and family incomes.
From some on the right, I expect we'll hear a different argument ­­ that if we just make fewer
investments in our people, extend tax cuts including those for the wealthier Americans,
eliminate more regulations, maintain the status quo on health care, our deficits will go
away. The problem is that's what we did for eight years. That's what helped us into this
crisis. It's what helped lead to these deficits. We can't do it again.
Rather than fight the same tired battles that have dominated Washington for decades, it's
time to try something new. Let's invest in our people without leaving them a mountain of
debt. Let's meet our responsibility to the citizens who sent us here. Let's try common sense ­­
a novel concept.
Now, to do that we have to recognize that we face more than a deficit of dollars right now. We
face a deficit of trust ­­ deep and corrosive doubts about how Washington works that have
been growing for years. To close that credibility gap we have to take action on both ends of
Pennsylvania Avenue ­­ to end the outsized influence of lobbyists; to do our work openly; to
give our people the government they deserve.
Now, that's what I came to Washington to do. That's why, for the first time in history, my
Administration posts on our White House visitors online. That's why we've excluded lobbyists
from policymaking jobs, or seats on federal boards and commissions. But we can't stop
there. It's time to require lobbyists to disclose each contact they make on behalf of a client
with my Administration or with Congress. It's time to put strict limits on the contributions that
lobbyists give to candidates for federal office.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
With all due deference to separation of powers, last week the Supreme Court reversed a
century of law that I believe will open the floodgates for special interests ­­ including foreign
corporations ­­ to spend without limit in our elections. I don't think American elections should
be bankrolled by America's most powerful interests ­­ or worse, by foreign entities. They
should be decided by the American people. And I'd urge Democrats and Republicans to pass a
bill that helps to correct some of these problems.
I'm also calling on Congress to continue down the path of earmark reform ­­ Democrats and
Republicans, Democrats and Republicans. Look...you've trimmed some of this spending;
you've embraced some meaningful change. But restoring the public trust demands more. For
example, some members of Congress post some earmark requests online. Tonight, I'm calling
on Congress to publish all earmark requests on a single Web site before there's a vote, so that
the American people can see how their money is being spent.
Of course, none of these reforms will even happen if we don't also reform how we work with
one another. Now, I'm not naïve. I never thought that the mere fact of my election would
usher in peace and harmony, and some post­partisan era. I knew that both parties have fed
divisions that are deeply entrenched. And on some issues, there are simply philosophical
differences that will always cause us to part ways. These disagreements, about the role of
government in our lives, about our national priorities and our national security, they've been
taking place for over 200 years. They're the very essence of our democracy.
But what frustrates the American people is a Washington where every day is "Election
Day." We can't wage a perpetual campaign where the only goal is to see who can get the
most embarrassing headlines about the other side ­­ a belief that if you lose, I win.1 Neither
party should delay or obstruct every single bill just because they can. The confirmation of ­­
I'm speaking to both parties now ­­ the confirmation of well­qualified public servants shouldn't
be held hostage to the pet projects or grudges of a few individual senators.
Washington may think that saying anything about the other side, no matter how false, no
matter how malicious, is just part of the game. But it's precisely such politics that has stopped
either party from helping the American people. Worse yet, it's sowing further division among
our citizens, further distrust in our government.
So, no, I will not give up on trying to change the tone of our politics. I know it's an election
year. And after last week, it's clear that campaign fever has come even earlier than
usual. But we still need to govern.
To Democrats, I would remind you that we still have the largest majority in decades, and the
people expect us to solve problems, not run for the hills. And if the Republican leadership is
going to insist that 60 votes in the Senate are required to do any business at all in this town ­­
a supermajority ­­ then the responsibility to govern is now yours as well. Just saying no to
everything may be good short­term politics, but it's not leadership.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
We were sent here to serve our citizens, not our ambitions. So let's show the American people
that we can do it together.
This week, I'll be addressing a meeting of the House Republicans. I'd like to begin monthly
meetings with both Democratic and Republican leadership. I know you can't wait.
Now, throughout our history, no issue has united this country more than our security. Sadly,
some of the unity we felt after 9/11 has dissipated. Now, we can argue all we want about
who's to blame for this, but I'm not interested in re­litigating the past. I know that all of us
love this country. All of us are committed to its defense. So let's put aside the schoolyard
taunts about who is tough. Let's reject the false choice between protecting our people and
upholding our values. Let's leave behind the fear and division, and do what it takes to defend
our nation and forge a more hopeful future ­­ for America and for the world.
That's the work we began last year. Since the day I took office, we've renewed our focus on
the terrorists who threaten our nation. We've made substantial investments in our homeland
security and disrupted plots that threatened to take American lives. We are filling
unacceptable gaps revealed by the failed Christmas attack, with better airline security and
swifter action on our intelligence. We've prohibited torture and strengthened partnerships
from the Pacific to South Asia to the Arabian Peninsula. And in the last year, hundreds of al
Qaeda's fighters and affiliates, including many senior leaders, have been captured or killed ­­
far more than in 2008.
And in Afghanistan, we're increasing our troops and training Afghan security forces so they
can begin to take the lead in July of 2011, and our troops can begin to come home. We will
reward good governance, work to reduce corruption, and support the rights of all Afghans ­­
men and women alike. We're joined by allies and partners who have increased their own
commitments, and who will come together tomorrow in London to reaffirm our common
purpose. There will be difficult days ahead. But I am absolutely confident we will succeed.
As we take the fight to al Qaeda, we are responsibly leaving Iraq to its people. As a candidate,
I promised that I would end this war, and that is what I am doing as President. We will have
all of our combat troops out of Iraq by the end of this August. We will support the Iraqi
government as they hold elections, and we will continue to partner with the Iraqi people to
promote regional peace and prosperity. But make no mistake: This war is ending, and all of
our troops are coming home.
Tonight, all of our men and women in uniform ­­ in Iraq, in Afghanistan, and around the world
­­ have to know that they have our respect, our gratitude, our full support. And just as they
must have the resources they need in war, we all have a responsibility to support them when
they come home. That's why we made the largest increase in investments for veterans in
decades last year. That's why we're building a 21st century VA. And that's why Michelle has
joined with Jill Biden to forge a national commitment to support military families.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, even as we prosecute two wars, we're also confronting perhaps the greatest danger to
the American people ­­ the threat of nuclear weapons. I've embraced the vision of John F.
Kennedy and Ronald Reagan through a strategy that reverses the spread of these weapons
and seeks a world without them. To reduce our stockpiles and launchers, while ensuring our
deterrent, the United States and Russia are completing negotiations on the farthest­reachings
arms control treaty in nearly two decades. And at April's Nuclear Security Summit, we will
bring 44 nations together here in Washington, D.C. behind a clear goal: securing all
vulnerable nuclear materials around the world in four years, so that they never fall into the
hands of terrorists.
Now, these diplomatic efforts have also strengthened our hand in dealing with those nations
that insist on violating international agreements in pursuit of nuclear weapons. That's why
North Korea now faces increased isolation and stronger sanctions ­­ sanctions that are being
vigorously enforced. That's why the international community is more united and the Islamic
Republic of Iran is more isolated. And as Iran's leaders continue to ignore their obligations,
there should be no doubt: They, too, will face growing consequences. That is a promise.
That's the leadership that we are providing ­­ engagement that advances the common
security and prosperity of all people. We're working through the G20 to sustain a lasting
global recovery. We're working with Muslim communities around the world to promote
science and education and innovation. We have gone from a bystander to a leader in the fight
against climate change. We're helping developing countries to feed themselves, and
continuing the fight against HIV/AIDS. And we are launching a new initiative that will give us
the capacity to respond faster and more effectively to bioterrorism or an infectious disease ­­
a plan that will counter threats at home and strengthen public health abroad.
As we have for over 60 years, America takes these actions because our destiny is connected
to those beyond our shores. But we also do it because it is right. That's why, as we meet here
tonight, over 10,000 Americans are working with many nations to help the people of Haiti
recover and rebuild. That's why we stand with the girl who yearns to go to school in
Afghanistan; why we support the human rights of the women marching through the streets of
Iran; why we advocate for the young man denied a job by corruption in Guinea. For America
must always stand on the side of freedom and human dignity. Always.
Abroad, America's greatest source of strength has always been our ideals. The same is true at
home. We find unity in our incredible diversity, drawing on the promise enshrined in our
Constitution: the notion that we're all created equal; that no matter who you are or what you
look like, if you abide by the law you should be protected by it; if you adhere to our common
values you should be treated no different than anyone else.
We must continually renew this promise. My Administration has a Civil Rights Division that is
once again prosecuting civil rights violations and employment discrimination. We finally
strengthened our laws to protect against crimes driven by hate.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
This year, I will work with Congress and our military to finally repeal the law that denies gay
Americans the right to serve the country they love because of who they are. It's the right
thing to do.
We're going to crack down on violations of equal pay laws so that women get equal pay for an
equal day's work. And we should continue the work of fixing our broken immigration system ­­
to secure our borders and enforce our laws, and ensure that everyone who plays by the rules
can contribute to our economy and enrich our nations.
In the end, it's our ideals, our values that built America ­­ values that allowed us to forge a
nation made up of immigrants from every corner of the globe; values that drive our citizens
still. Every day, Americans meet their responsibilities to their families and their
employers. Time and again, they lend a hand to their neighbors and give back to their
country. They take pride in their labor, and are generous in spirit. These aren't Republican
values or Democratic values that they're living by; business values or labor values. They're
American values.
Unfortunately, too many of our citizens have lost faith that our biggest institutions ­­ our
corporations, our media, and, yes, our government ­­ still reflect these same values. Each of
these institutions are full of honorable men and women doing important work that helps our
country prosper. But each time a CEO rewards himself for failure, or a banker puts the rest of
us at risk for his own selfish gain, people's doubts grow. Each time lobbyists game the system
or politicians tear each other down instead of lifting this country up, we lose faith. The more
that TV pundits reduce serious debates to silly arguments, big issues into sound bites, our
citizens turn away.
No wonder there's so much cynicism out there. No wonder there's so much disappointment.
I campaigned on the promise of change ­­ "Change we can believe in" ­­ the slogan went. And
right now, I know there are many Americans who aren't sure if they still believe we can
change ­­ or that I can deliver it. But remember this: I never suggested that change would be
easy, or that I could do it alone. Democracy in a nation of 300 million people can be noisy and
messy and complicated. And when you try to do big things and make big changes, it stirs
passions and controversy. That's just how it is.
Those of us in public office can respond to this reality by playing it safe and avoid telling hard
truths and pointing fingers. We can do what's necessary to keep our poll numbers high, and
get through the next election instead of doing what's best for the next generation.
But I also know this: If people had made that decision 50 years ago, or 100 years ago, or 200
years ago, we wouldn't be here tonight.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
The only reason we are here is because generations of Americans were unafraid to do what
was hard; to do what was needed even when success was uncertain; to do what it took to
keep the dream of this nation alive for their children and their grandchildren.
Our Administration has had some political setbacks this year, and some of them were
deserved. But I wake up every day knowing that they are nothing compared to the setbacks
that families all across this country have faced this year. And what keeps me going, what
keeps me fighting, is that despite all these setbacks, that spirit of determination and
optimism, that fundamental decency that has always been at the core of the American people
­­ that lives on.
It lives on in the struggling small business owner who wrote to me of his company: "None of
us," he said, "…are willing to consider, even slightly, that we might fail."
It lives on in the woman who said that even though she and her neighbors have felt the pain
of recession, "We are strong. We are resilient. We are American."
It lives on in the 8­year­old boy in Louisiana, who just sent me his allowance and asked if I
would give it to the people of Haiti.
And it lives on in all the Americans who've dropped everything to go someplace they've never
been and pull people they've never known from the rubble, prompting chants of "U.S.A.!
U.S.A.! U.S.A!" when another life was saved.
The spirit that has sustained this nation for more than two centuries lives on in you, its
people.
We have finished a difficult year. We have come through a difficult decade. But a new year
has come. A new decade stretches before us. We don't quit. I don't quit. Let's seize this
moment ­­ to start anew, to carry the dream forward, and to strengthen our union once more.
Thank you. God bless you. And God bless the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 15
</doc>
<doc id="file32329879" filename="Barack_Obama_-_State_of_the_Union_2011.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20State%20of%20the%20Union%202011.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Second Presidential State of the Union Address

Delivered 25 January 2011, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. Speaker, Mr. Vice President, members of Congress, distinguished guests, and fellow
Americans:
Tonight I want to begin by congratulating the men and women of the 112th Congress, as well
as your new Speaker, John Boehner. And as we mark this occasion, we’re also mindful of the
empty chair in this chamber, and we pray for the health of our colleague -- and our friend -Gabby Giffords.
It’s no secret that those of us here tonight have had our differences over the last two years.
The debates have been contentious; we have fought fiercely for our beliefs. And that’s a good
thing. That’s what a robust democracy demands. That’s what helps set us apart as a nation.
But there’s a reason the tragedy in Tucson gave us pause. Amid all the noise and passion and
rancor of our public debate, Tucson reminded us that no matter who we are or where we
come from, each of us is a part of something greater -- something more consequential than
party or political preference.
We are part of the American family. We believe that in a country where every race and faith
and point of view can be found, we are still bound together as one people; that we share
common hopes and a common creed; that the dreams of a little girl in Tucson are not so
different than those of our own children, and that they all deserve the chance to be fulfilled.
That, too, is what sets us apart as a nation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, by itself, this simple recognition won’t usher in a new era of cooperation. What comes
of this moment is up to us. What comes of this moment will be determined not by whether
we can sit together tonight, but whether we can work together tomorrow.
I believe we can. And I believe we must. That’s what the people who sent us here expect of
us. With their votes, they’ve determined that governing will now be a shared responsibility
between parties. New laws will only pass with support from Democrats and Republicans. We
will move forward together, or not at all -- for the challenges we face are bigger than party,
and bigger than politics.
At stake right now is not who wins the next election -- after all, we just had an election. At
stake is whether new jobs and industries take root in this country, or somewhere else. It’s
whether the hard work and industry of our people is rewarded. It’s whether we sustain the
leadership that has made America not just a place on a map, but the light to the world.
We are poised for progress. Two years after the worst recession most of us have ever known,
the stock market has come roaring back. Corporate profits are up. The economy is growing
again.
But we have never measured progress by these yardsticks alone. We measure progress by
the success of our people. By the jobs they can find and the quality of life those jobs offer.
By the prospects of a small business owner who dreams of turning a good idea into a thriving
enterprise. By the opportunities for a better life that we pass on to our children.
That’s the project the American people want us to work on. Together.
We did that in December. Thanks to the tax cuts we passed, Americans’ paychecks are a little
bigger today. Every business can write off the full cost of new investments that they make
this year. And these steps, taken by Democrats and Republicans, will grow the economy and
add to the more than one million private sector jobs created last year.
But we have to do more. These steps we’ve taken over the last two years may have broken
the back of this recession, but to win the future, we’ll need to take on challenges that have
been decades in the making.
Many people watching tonight can probably remember a time when finding a good job meant
showing up at a nearby factory or a business downtown. You didn’t always need a degree,
and your competition was pretty much limited to your neighbors. If you worked hard,
chances are you’d have a job for life, with a decent paycheck and good benefits and the
occasional promotion. Maybe you’d even have the pride of seeing your kids work at the same
company.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That world has changed. And for many, the change has been painful. I’ve seen it in the
shuttered windows of once booming factories, and the vacant storefronts on once busy Main
Streets. I’ve heard it in the frustrations of Americans who’ve seen their paychecks dwindle or
their jobs disappear -- proud men and women who feel like the rules have been changed in
the middle of the game.
They’re right. The rules have changed. In a single generation, revolutions in technology have
transformed the way we live, work and do business. Steel mills that once needed 1,000
workers can now do the same work with 100. Today, just about any company can set up
shop, hire workers, and sell their products wherever there’s an Internet connection.
Meanwhile, nations like China and India realized that with some changes of their own, they
could compete in this new world. And so they started educating their children earlier and
longer, with greater emphasis on math and science. They’re investing in research and new
technologies. Just recently, China became the home to the world’s largest private solar
research facility, and the world’s fastest computer.
So, yes, the world has changed. The competition for jobs is real. But this shouldn’t
discourage us. It should challenge us. Remember -- for all the hits we’ve taken these last few
years, for all the naysayers predicting our decline, America still has the largest, most
prosperous economy in the world. No workers -- no workers are more productive than ours.
No country has more successful companies, or grants more patents to inventors and
entrepreneurs. We’re the home to the world’s best colleges and universities, where more
students come to study than any place on Earth.
What’s more, we are the first nation to be founded for the sake of an idea -- the idea that
each of us deserves the chance to shape our own destiny. That’s why centuries of pioneers
and immigrants have risked everything to come here. It’s why our students don’t just
memorize equations, but answer questions like “What do you think of that idea? What would
you change about the world? What do you want to be when you grow up?”
The future is ours to win. But to get there, we can’t just stand still. As Robert Kennedy told
us, “The future is not a gift. It is an achievement.” Sustaining the American Dream has never
been about standing pat. It has required each generation to sacrifice, and struggle, and meet
the demands of a new age.
And now it’s our turn. We know what it takes to compete for the jobs and industries of our
time. We need to out-innovate, out-educate, and out-build the rest of the world. We have to
make America the best place on Earth to do business. We need to take responsibility for our
deficit and reform our government. That’s how our people will prosper. That’s how we’ll win
the future. And tonight, I’d like to talk about how we get there.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The first step in winning the future is encouraging American innovation. None of us can
predict with certainty what the next big industry will be or where the new jobs will come
from. Thirty years ago, we couldn’t know that something called the Internet would lead to an
economic revolution. What we can do -- what America does better than anyone else -- is
spark the creativity and imagination of our people. We’re the nation that put cars in
driveways and computers in offices; the nation of Edison and the Wright brothers; of Google
and Facebook. In America, innovation doesn’t just change our lives. It is how we make our
living.
Our free enterprise system is what drives innovation. But because it’s not always profitable
for companies to invest in basic research, throughout our history, our government has
provided cutting-edge scientists and inventors with the support that they need. That’s what
planted the seeds for the Internet. That’s what helped make possible things like computer
chips and GPS. Just think of all the good jobs -- from manufacturing to retail -- that have
come from these breakthroughs.
Half a century ago, when the Soviets beat us into space with the launch of a satellite called
Sputnik, we had no idea how we would beat them to the moon. The science wasn’t even
there yet. NASA didn’t exist. But after investing in better research and education, we didn’t
just surpass the Soviets; we unleashed a wave of innovation that created new industries and
millions of new jobs.
This is our generation’s Sputnik moment. Two years ago, I said that we needed to reach a
level of research and development we haven’t seen since the height of the Space Race. And
in a few weeks, I will be sending a budget to Congress that helps us meet that goal. We’ll
invest in biomedical research, information technology, and especially clean energy technology
-- an investment that will strengthen our security, protect our planet, and create countless
new jobs for our people.
Already, we’re seeing the promise of renewable energy. Robert and Gary Allen are brothers
who run a small Michigan roofing company. After September 11th, they volunteered their
best roofers to help repair the Pentagon. But half of their factory went unused, and the
recession hit them hard. Today, with the help of a government loan, that empty space is
being used to manufacture solar shingles that are being sold all across the country. In
Robert’s words, “We reinvented ourselves.”
That’s what Americans have done for over 200 years: reinvented ourselves. And to spur on
more success stories like the Allen Brothers, we’ve begun to reinvent our energy policy. We’re
not just handing out money. We’re issuing a challenge. We’re telling America’s scientists and
engineers that if they assemble teams of the best minds in their fields, and focus on the
hardest problems in clean energy, we’ll fund the Apollo projects of our time.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
At the California Institute of Technology, they’re developing a way to turn sunlight and water
into fuel for our cars. At Oak Ridge National Laboratory, they’re using supercomputers to get
a lot more power out of our nuclear facilities. With more research and incentives, we can
break our dependence on oil with biofuels, and become the first country to have a million
electric vehicles on the road by 2015.
We need to get behind this innovation. And to help pay for it, I’m asking Congress to
eliminate the billions in taxpayer dollars we currently give to oil companies. I don’t know if -I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but they’re doing just fine on their own. So instead of
subsidizing yesterday’s energy, let’s invest in tomorrow’s.
Now, clean energy breakthroughs will only translate into clean energy jobs if businesses know
there will be a market for what they’re selling. So tonight, I challenge you to join me in
setting a new goal: By 2035, 80 percent of America’s electricity will come from clean energy
sources.
Some folks want wind and solar. Others want nuclear, clean coal and natural gas. To meet
this goal, we will need them all -- and I urge Democrats and Republicans to work together to
make it happen.
Maintaining our leadership in research and technology is crucial to America’s success. But if
we want to win the future -- if we want innovation to produce jobs in America and not
overseas -- then we also have to win the race to educate our kids.
Think about it. Over the next 10 years, nearly half of all new jobs will require education that
goes beyond a high school education. And yet, as many as a quarter of our students aren’t
even finishing high school. The quality of our math and science education lags behind many
other nations. America has fallen to ninth in the proportion of young people with a college
degree. And so the question is whether all of us -- as citizens, and as parents -- are willing to
do what’s necessary to give every child a chance to succeed.
That responsibility begins not in our classrooms, but in our homes and communities. It’s
family that first instills the love of learning in a child. Only parents can make sure the TV is
turned off and homework gets done. We need to teach our kids that it’s not just the winner of
the Super Bowl who deserves to be celebrated, but the winner of the science fair. We need to
teach them that success is not a function of fame or PR, but of hard work and discipline.
Our schools share this responsibility. When a child walks into a classroom, it should be a
place of high expectations and high performance. But too many schools don’t meet this test.
That’s why instead of just pouring money into a system that’s not working, we launched a
competition called Race to the Top. To all 50 states, we said, “If you show us the most
innovative plans to improve teacher quality and student achievement, we’ll show you the
money.”

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Race to the Top is the most meaningful reform of our public schools in a generation. For less
than 1 percent of what we spend on education each year, it has led over 40 states to raise
their standards for teaching and learning. And these standards were developed, by the way,
not by Washington, but by Republican and Democratic governors throughout the country.
And Race to the Top should be the approach we follow this year as we replace No Child Left
Behind with a law that’s more flexible and focused on what’s best for our kids.
You see, we know what’s possible from our children when reform isn’t just a top-down
mandate, but the work of local teachers and principals, school boards and communities. Take
a school like Bruce Randolph in Denver. Three years ago, it was rated one of the worst
schools in Colorado -- located on turf between two rival gangs. But last May, 97 percent of
the seniors received their diploma. Most will be the first in their families to go to college. And
after the first year of the school’s transformation, the principal who made it possible wiped
away tears when a student said, “Thank you, Ms. Waters, for showing that we are smart and
we can make it.” That’s what good schools can do, and we want good schools all across the
country.
Let’s also remember that after parents, the biggest impact on a child’s success comes from
the man or woman at the front of the classroom. In South Korea, teachers are known as
“nation builders.” Here in America, it’s time we treated the people who educate our children
with the same level of respect. We want to reward good teachers and stop making excuses
for bad ones. And over the next 10 years, with so many baby boomers retiring from our
classrooms, we want to prepare 100,000 new teachers in the fields of science and technology
and engineering and math.
In fact, to every young person listening tonight who’s contemplating their career choice: If
you want to make a difference in the life of our nation; if you want to make a difference in the
life of a child -- become a teacher. Your country needs you.
Of course, the education race doesn’t end with a high school diploma. To compete, higher
education must be within the reach of every American. That’s why we’ve ended the
unwarranted taxpayer subsidies that went to banks, and used the savings to make college
affordable for millions of students. And this year, I ask Congress to go further, and make
permanent our tuition tax credit -- worth $10,000 for four years of college. It’s the right thing
to do.
Because people need to be able to train for new jobs and careers in today’s fast-changing
economy, we’re also revitalizing America’s community colleges. Last month, I saw the
promise of these schools at Forsyth Tech in North Carolina. Many of the students there used
to work in the surrounding factories that have since left town. One mother of two, a woman
named Kathy Proctor, had worked in the furniture industry since she was 18 years old. And
she told me she’s earning her degree in biotechnology now, at 55 years old, not just because
the furniture jobs are gone, but because she wants to inspire her children to pursue their
dreams, too. As Kathy said, “I hope it tells them to never give up.”

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
If we take these steps -- if we raise expectations for every child, and give them the best
possible chance at an education, from the day they are born until the last job they take -- we
will reach the goal that I set two years ago: By the end of the decade, America will once
again have the highest proportion of college graduates in the world.
One last point about education. Today, there are hundreds of thousands of students excelling
in our schools who are not American citizens. Some are the children of undocumented
workers, who had nothing to do with the actions of their parents. They grew up as Americans
and pledge allegiance to our flag, and yet they live every day with the threat of deportation.
Others come here from abroad to study in our colleges and universities. But as soon as they
obtain advanced degrees, we send them back home to compete against us. It makes no
sense.
Now, I strongly believe that we should take on, once and for all, the issue of illegal
immigration. And I am prepared to work with Republicans and Democrats to protect our
borders, enforce our laws and address the millions of undocumented workers who are now
living in the shadows. I know that debate will be difficult. I know it will take time. But
tonight, let’s agree to make that effort. And let’s stop expelling talented, responsible young
people who could be staffing our research labs or starting a new business, who could be
further enriching this nation.
The third step in winning the future is rebuilding America. To attract new businesses to our
shores, we need the fastest, most reliable ways to move people, goods, and information -from high-speed rail to high-speed Internet.
Our infrastructure used to be the best, but our lead has slipped. South Korean homes now
have greater Internet access than we do. Countries in Europe and Russia invest more in their
roads and railways than we do. China is building faster trains and newer airports. Meanwhile,
when our own engineers graded our nation’s infrastructure, they gave us a “D.”
We have to do better. America is the nation that built the transcontinental railroad, brought
electricity to rural communities, constructed the Interstate Highway System. The jobs created
by these projects didn’t just come from laying down track or pavement. They came from
businesses that opened near a town’s new train station or the new off-ramp.
So over the last two years, we’ve begun rebuilding for the 21st century, a project that has
meant thousands of good jobs for the hard-hit construction industry. And tonight, I’m
proposing that we redouble those efforts.
We’ll put more Americans to work repairing crumbling roads and bridges. We’ll make sure
this is fully paid for, attract private investment, and pick projects based [on] what’s best for
the economy, not politicians.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
Within 25 years, our goal is to give 80 percent of Americans access to high-speed rail. This
could allow you to go places in half the time it takes to travel by car. For some trips, it will be
faster than flying -- without the pat-down. As we speak, routes in California and the Midwest
are already underway.
Within the next five years, we’ll make it possible for businesses to deploy the next generation
of high-speed wireless coverage to 98 percent of all Americans. This isn’t just about -- this
isn’t about faster Internet or fewer dropped calls. It’s about connecting every part of America
to the digital age. It’s about a rural community in Iowa or Alabama where farmers and small
business owners will be able to sell their products all over the world. It’s about a firefighter
who can download the design of a burning building onto a handheld device; a student who can
take classes with a digital textbook; or a patient who can have face-to-face video chats with
her doctor.
All these investments -- in innovation, education, and infrastructure -- will make America a
better place to do business and create jobs. But to help our companies compete, we also
have to knock down barriers that stand in the way of their success.
For example, over the years, a parade of lobbyists has rigged the tax code to benefit
particular companies and industries. Those with accountants or lawyers to work the system
can end up paying no taxes at all. But all the rest are hit with one of the highest corporate
tax rates in the world. It makes no sense, and it has to change.
So tonight, I’m asking Democrats and Republicans to simplify the system. Get rid of the
loopholes. Level the playing field. And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for the
first time in 25 years -- without adding to our deficit. It can be done.
To help businesses sell more products abroad, we set a goal of doubling our exports by 2014 - because the more we export, the more jobs we create here at home. Already, our exports
are up. Recently, we signed agreements with India and China that will support more than
250,000 jobs here in the United States. And last month, we finalized a trade agreement with
South Korea that will support at least 70,000 American jobs. This agreement has
unprecedented support from business and labor, Democrats and Republicans -- and I ask this
Congress to pass it as soon as possible.
Now, before I took office, I made it clear that we would enforce our trade agreements, and
that I would only sign deals that keep faith with American workers and promote American
jobs. That’s what we did with Korea, and that’s what I intend to do as we pursue agreements
with Panama and Colombia and continue our Asia Pacific and global trade talks.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
To reduce barriers to growth and investment, I’ve ordered a review of government
regulations. When we find rules that put an unnecessary burden on businesses, we will fix
them. But I will not hesitate to create or enforce common-sense safeguards to protect the
American people. That’s what we’ve done in this country for more than a century. It’s why
our food is safe to eat, our water is safe to drink, and our air is safe to breathe. It’s why we
have speed limits and child labor laws. It’s why last year, we put in place consumer
protections against hidden fees and penalties by credit card companies and new rules to
prevent another financial crisis. And it’s why we passed reform that finally prevents the health
insurance industry from exploiting patients.
Now, I have heard rumors that a few of you still have concerns about our new health care
law. So let me be the first to say that anything can be improved. If you have ideas about
how to improve this law by making care better or more affordable, I am eager to work with
you. We can start right now by correcting a flaw in the legislation that has placed an
unnecessary bookkeeping burden on small businesses.
What I’m not willing to do -- what I’m not willing to do is go back to the days when insurance
companies could deny someone coverage because of a preexisting condition.
I’m not willing to tell James Howard, a brain cancer patient from Texas, that his treatment
might not be covered. I’m not willing to tell Jim Houser, a small business man from Oregon,
that he has to go back to paying $5,000 more to cover his employees. As we speak, this law
is making prescription drugs cheaper for seniors and giving uninsured students a chance to
stay on their patients’ -- parents’ coverage.
So I say to this chamber tonight, instead of re-fighting the battles of the last two years, let’s
fix what needs fixing and let’s move forward.
Now, the final critical step in winning the future is to make sure we aren’t buried under a
mountain of debt.
We are living with a legacy of deficit spending that began almost a decade ago. And in the
wake of the financial crisis, some of that was necessary to keep credit flowing, save jobs, and
put money in people’s pockets.
But now that the worst of the recession is over, we have to confront the fact that our
government spends more than it takes in. That is not sustainable. Every day, families
sacrifice to live within their means. They deserve a government that does the same.
So tonight, I am proposing that starting this year, we freeze annual domestic spending for the
next five years. Now, this would reduce the deficit by more than $400 billion over the next
decade, and will bring discretionary spending to the lowest share of our economy since Dwight
Eisenhower was President.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
This freeze will require painful cuts. Already, we’ve frozen the salaries of hardworking federal
employees for the next two years. I’ve proposed cuts to things I care deeply about, like
community action programs. The Secretary of Defense has also agreed to cut tens of billions
of dollars in spending that he and his generals believe our military can do without.
I recognize that some in this chamber have already proposed deeper cuts, and I’m willing to
eliminate whatever we can honestly afford to do without. But let’s make sure that we’re not
doing it on the backs of our most vulnerable citizens. And let’s make sure that what we’re
cutting is really excess weight. Cutting the deficit by gutting our investments in innovation
and education is like lightening an overloaded airplane by removing its engine. It may make
you feel like you’re flying high at first, but it won’t take long before you feel the impact.
Now, most of the cuts and savings I’ve proposed only address annual domestic spending,
which represents a little more than 12 percent of our budget. To make further progress, we
have to stop pretending that cutting this kind of spending alone will be enough. It won’t.
The bipartisan fiscal commission I created last year made this crystal clear. I don’t agree with
all their proposals, but they made important progress. And their conclusion is that the only
way to tackle our deficit is to cut excessive spending wherever we find it -- in domestic
spending, defense spending, health care spending, and spending through tax breaks and
loopholes.
This means further reducing health care costs, including programs like Medicare and Medicaid,
which are the single biggest contributor to our long-term deficit. The health insurance law we
passed last year will slow these rising costs, which is part of the reason that nonpartisan
economists have said that repealing the health care law would add a quarter of a trillion
dollars to our deficit. Still, I’m willing to look at other ideas to bring down costs, including one
that Republicans suggested last year -- medical malpractice reform to rein in frivolous
lawsuits.
To put us on solid ground, we should also find a bipartisan solution to strengthen Social
Security for future generations. We must do it without putting at risk current retirees, the
most vulnerable, or people with disabilities; without slashing benefits for future generations;
and without subjecting Americans’ guaranteed retirement income to the whims of the stock
market.
And if we truly care about our deficit, we simply can’t afford a permanent extension of the tax
cuts for the wealthiest 2 percent of Americans. Before we take money away from our schools
or scholarships away from our students, we should ask millionaires to give up their tax break.
It’s not a matter of punishing their success. It’s about promoting America’s success.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
In fact, the best thing we could do on taxes for all Americans is to simplify the individual tax
code. This will be a tough job, but members of both parties have expressed an interest in
doing this, and I am prepared to join them.
So now is the time to act. Now is the time for both sides and both houses of Congress -Democrats and Republicans -- to forge a principled compromise that gets the job done. If we
make the hard choices now to rein in our deficits, we can make the investments we need to
win the future.
Let me take this one step further. We shouldn’t just give our people a government that’s
more affordable. We should give them a government that’s more competent and more
efficient. We can’t win the future with a government of the past.
We live and do business in the Information Age, but the last major reorganization of the
government happened in the age of black-and-white TV. There are 12 different agencies that
deal with exports. There are at least five different agencies that deal with housing policy.
Then there’s my favorite example: The Interior Department is in charge of salmon while
they’re in fresh water, but the Commerce Department handles them when they’re in
saltwater. I hear it gets even more complicated once they’re smoked.
Now, we’ve made great strides over the last two years in using technology and getting rid of
waste. Veterans can now download their electronic medical records with a click of the
mouse. We’re selling acres of federal office space that hasn’t been used in years, and we’ll
cut through red tape to get rid of more. But we need to think bigger. In the coming months,
my administration will develop a proposal to merge, consolidate, and reorganize the federal
government in a way that best serves the goal of a more competitive America. I will submit
that proposal to Congress for a vote -- and we will push to get it passed.
In the coming year, we’ll also work to rebuild people’s faith in the institution of government.
Because you deserve to know exactly how and where your tax dollars are being spent, you’ll
be able to go to a website and get that information for the very first time in history. Because
you deserve to know when your elected officials are meeting with lobbyists, I ask Congress to
do what the White House has already done -- put that information online. And because the
American people deserve to know that special interests aren’t larding up legislation with pet
projects, both parties in Congress should know this: If a bill comes to my desk with earmarks
inside, I will veto it. I will veto it.
The 21st century government that’s open and competent. A government that lives within its
means. An economy that’s driven by new skills and new ideas. Our success in this new and
changing world will require reform, responsibility, and innovation. It will also require us to
approach that world with a new level of engagement in our foreign affairs.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
Just as jobs and businesses can now race across borders, so can new threats and new
challenges. No single wall separates East and West. No one rival superpower is aligned
against us.
And so we must defeat determined enemies, wherever they are, and build coalitions that cut
across lines of region and race and religion. And America’s moral example must always shine
for all who yearn for freedom and justice and dignity. And because we’ve begun this work,
tonight we can say that American leadership has been renewed and America’s standing has
been restored.
Look to Iraq, where nearly 100,000 of our brave men and women have left with their heads
held high. American combat patrols have ended, violence is down, and a new government has
been formed. This year, our civilians will forge a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people,
while we finish the job of bringing our troops out of Iraq. America’s commitment has been
kept. The Iraq war is coming to an end.
Of course, as we speak, al Qaeda and their affiliates continue to plan attacks against us.
Thanks to our intelligence and law enforcement professionals, we’re disrupting plots and
securing our cities and skies. And as extremists try to inspire acts of violence within our
borders, we are responding with the strength of our communities, with respect for the rule of
law, and with the conviction that American Muslims are a part of our American family.
We’ve also taken the fight to al Qaeda and their allies abroad. In Afghanistan, our troops
have taken Taliban strongholds and trained Afghan security forces. Our purpose is clear: By
preventing the Taliban from reestablishing a stranglehold over the Afghan people, we will
deny al Qaeda the safe haven that served as a launching pad for 9/11.
Thanks to our heroic troops and civilians, fewer Afghans are under the control of the
insurgency. There will be tough fighting ahead, and the Afghan government will need to
deliver better governance. But we are strengthening the capacity of the Afghan people and
building an enduring partnership with them. This year, we will work with nearly 50 countries
to begin a transition to an Afghan lead. And this July, we will begin to bring our troops home.
In Pakistan, al Qaeda’s leadership is under more pressure than at any point since 2001. Their
leaders and operatives are being removed from the battlefield. Their safe havens are
shrinking. And we’ve sent a message from the Afghan border to the Arabian Peninsula to all
parts of the globe: We will not relent, we will not waver, and we will defeat you.
American leadership can also be seen in the effort to secure the worst weapons of war.
Because Republicans and Democrats approved the New START treaty, far fewer nuclear
weapons and launchers will be deployed. Because we rallied the world, nuclear materials are
being locked down on every continent so they never fall into the hands of terrorists.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
Because of a diplomatic effort to insist that Iran meet its obligations, the Iranian government
now faces tougher sanctions, tighter sanctions than ever before. And on the Korean
Peninsula, we stand with our ally South Korea, and insist that North Korea keeps its
commitment to abandon nuclear weapons.
This is just a part of how we’re shaping a world that favors peace and prosperity. With our
European allies, we revitalized NATO and increased our cooperation on everything from
counterterrorism to missile defense. We’ve reset our relationship with Russia, strengthened
Asian alliances, built new partnerships with nations like India.
This March, I will travel to Brazil, Chile, and El Salvador to forge new alliances across the
Americas. Around the globe, we’re standing with those who take responsibility -- helping
farmers grow more food, supporting doctors who care for the sick, and combating the
corruption that can rot a society and rob people of opportunity.
Recent events have shown us that what sets us apart must not just be our power -- it must
also be the purpose behind it. In south Sudan -- with our assistance -- the people were finally
able to vote for independence after years of war. Thousands lined up before dawn. People
danced in the streets. One man who lost four of his brothers at war summed up the scene
around him: “This was a battlefield for most of my life,” he said. “Now we want to be free.”
And we saw that same desire to be free in Tunisia, where the will of the people proved more
powerful than the writ of a dictator. And tonight, let us be clear: The United States of
America stands with the people of Tunisia, and supports the democratic aspirations of all
people.
We must never forget that the things we’ve struggled for, and fought for, live in the hearts of
people everywhere. And we must always remember that the Americans who have borne the
greatest burden in this struggle are the men and women who serve our country.
Tonight, let us speak with one voice in reaffirming that our nation is united in support of our
troops and their families. Let us serve them as well as they’ve served us -- by giving them
the equipment they need, by providing them with the care and benefits that they have
earned, and by enlisting our veterans in the great task of building our own nation.
Our troops come from every corner of this country -- they’re black, white, Latino, Asian,
Native American. They are Christian and Hindu, Jewish and Muslim. And, yes, we know that
some of them are gay. Starting this year, no American will be forbidden from serving the
country they love because of who they love. And with that change, I call on all our college
campuses to open their doors to our military recruiters and ROTC. It is time to leave behind
the divisive battles of the past. It is time to move forward as one nation.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
We should have no illusions about the work ahead of us. Reforming our schools, changing the
way we use energy, reducing our deficit -- none of this will be easy. All of it will take time.
And it will be harder because we will argue about everything. The costs. The details. The
letter of every law.
Of course, some countries don’t have this problem. If the central government wants a
railroad, they build a railroad, no matter how many homes get bulldozed. If they don’t want a
bad story in the newspaper, it doesn’t get written.
And yet, as contentious and frustrating and messy as our democracy can sometimes be, I
know there isn’t a person here who would trade places with any other nation on Earth.
We may have differences in policy, but we all believe in the rights enshrined in our
Constitution. We may have different opinions, but we believe in the same promise that says
this is a place where you can make it if you try. We may have different backgrounds, but we
believe in the same dream that says this is a country where anything is possible. No matter
who you are. No matter where you come from.
That dream is why I can stand here before you tonight. That dream is why a working-class
kid from Scranton can sit behind me. That dream is why someone who began by sweeping the
floors of his father’s Cincinnati bar can preside as Speaker of the House in the greatest nation
on Earth.
That dream -- that American Dream -- is what drove the Allen Brothers to reinvent their
roofing company for a new era. It’s what drove those students at Forsyth Tech to learn a new
skill and work towards the future. And that dream is the story of a small business owner
named Brandon Fisher.
Brandon started a company in Berlin, Pennsylvania, that specializes in a new kind of drilling
technology. And one day last summer, he saw the news that halfway across the world, 33
men were trapped in a Chilean mine, and no one knew how to save them.
But Brandon thought his company could help. And so he designed a rescue that would come
to be known as Plan B. His employees worked around the clock to manufacture the necessary
drilling equipment. And Brandon left for Chile.
Along with others, he began drilling a 2,000-foot hole into the ground, working three- or fourhour -- three or four days at a time without any sleep. Thirty-seven days later, Plan B
succeeded, and the miners were rescued. But because he didn’t want all of the attention,
Brandon wasn’t there when the miners emerged. He’d already gone back home, back to work
on his next project.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
And later, one of his employees said of the rescue, “We proved that Center Rock is a little
company, but we do big things.”
We do big things.
From the earliest days of our founding, America has been the story of ordinary people who
dare to dream. That’s how we win the future.
We’re a nation that says, “I might not have a lot of money, but I have this great idea for a
new company.” “I might not come from a family of college graduates, but I will be the first to
get my degree.” “I might not know those people in trouble, but I think I can help them, and I
need to try.” “I’m not sure how we’ll reach that better place beyond the horizon, but I know
we’ll get there. I know we will.”
We do big things.
The idea of America endures. Our destiny remains our choice. And tonight, more than two
centuries later, it’s because of our people that our future is hopeful, our journey goes forward,
and the state of our union is strong.
Thank you. God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 15
</doc>
<doc id="file32329638" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Strasbourg_Town_Hall.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Strasbourg%20Town%20Hall.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address in Strasbourg Town Hall

Delivered 3 April 2009, Rhenus Sports Arena

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much. Good afternoon. Bon après-midi. And guten tag. It is a great honor for me to be here in
Europe, to be here in Strasbourg. I want to make just a few acknowledgements. I want to thank the
President of France, Nicolas Sarkozy, for being such a terrific friend. I want to thank his wife, Madam
Sarkozy. They just hosted us at the palace and could not have been more gracious.
I want to thank the Charge d'Affaires, Mark Pekala, and his wife, Maria, who were helping to organize us;
Vincent Carver, who's the Counsel General in Strasbourg. And I want to thank the Mayor of Strasbourg,
Roland Ries, for his hospitality.
It is wonderful to be here with all of you and to have an opportunity not only to speak to you but also to take
some questions. You know, oftentimes during these foreign trips you see everything from behind a window,
and what we thought was important was for me to have an opportunity to not only speak with you but also to
hear from you, because that's ultimately how we can learn about each other. But before I take some
questions, I hope you don't mind me making a few remarks about my country and yours; the relationship
between the United States and the relationship between Europe.
Strasbourg has been known throughout history as a city at the crossroads. Over thousands of years, you
straddled many kingdoms and many cultures. Two rivers are joined here. Two religions have flourished in
your churches. Three languages comprise an ancient oath that bears the city's name. You served as a
center of industry and commerce, a seat of government and education, where Goethe studied and Pasteur
taught and Gutenberg imagined his printing press.
So it's fitting because we find ourselves at a crossroads as well -- all of us -- for we've arrived at a moment
where each nation and every citizen must choose at last how we respond to a world that has grown smaller
and more connected than at any time in its existence.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
We've known for a long time that the revolutions in communications and technology that took place in the
20th century would hold out enormous promise for the 21st century -- the promise of broader prosperity and
mobility; of new breakthroughs and discoveries that could help us lead richer and fuller lives. But the same
forces that have brought us closer together have also given rise to new dangers that threaten to tear our
world apart -- dangers that cannot be contained by the nearest border or the furthest ocean.
Even with the Cold War now over, the spread of nuclear weapons or the theft of nuclear material could lead
to the extermination of any city on the planet. And this weekend in Prague, I will lay out an agenda to seek
the goal of a world without nuclear weapons.
We also know that the pollution from cars in Boston or from factories in Beijing are melting the ice caps in
the Arctic, and that that will disrupt weather patterns everywhere. The terrorists who struck in London, in
New York, plotted in distant caves and simple apartments much closer to your home. And the reckless
speculation of bankers that has new fueled a global economic downturn that's inflicting pain on workers and
families is happening everywhere all across the globe.
The economic crisis has proven the fact of our interdependence in the most visible way yet. Not more than a
generation ago, it would have been difficult to imagine that the inability of somebody to pay for a house in
Florida could contribute to the failure of the banking system in Iceland. Today what's difficult to imagine is
that we did not act sooner to shape our future.
Now, there's plenty of blame to go around for what has happened, and the United States certainly shares its
-- shares blame for what has happened. But every nation bears responsibility for what lies ahead, especially
now, for whether it's the recession or climate change, or terrorism, or drug trafficking, poverty, or the
proliferation of nuclear weapons, we have learned that without a doubt there's no quarter of the globe that
can wall itself off from the threats of the 21st century.
The one way forward -- the only way forward -- is through a common and persistent effort to combat fear
and want wherever they exist. That is the challenge of our time -- and we can not fail to meet it, together.
Now, we take for granted the peace of a Europe that's united, but for centuries Strasbourg has been
attacked and occupied and claimed by the warring nations of this continent. Now, today in this city, the
presence of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe stand as symbols of a Europe that is united
peaceful and free.
Now, we take this peace and prosperity for granted, but this destination was not easily reached, nor was it
predestined. The buildings that are now living monuments to European unity were not drawn from simple
blueprints. They were born out of the blood of the first half of the 20th century and the resolve of the second.
Men and women had to have the imagination to see a better future, and the courage to reach for it.
Europeans and Americans had to have the sense of common purpose to join one another, and the patience
and the persistence to see a long twilight struggle through.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It was 61 years ago this April that a Marshall Plan to rebuild Europe helped to deliver hope to a continent
that had been decimated by war. Amid the ashes and the rubble that surrounded so many cities like this
one, America joined with you in an unprecedented effort that secured a lasting prosperity not just in Europe,
but around the world -- on both sides of the Atlantic.
One year later, exactly 60 years ago tomorrow, we ensured our shared security when 12 of our nations
signed a treaty in Washington that spelled out a simple agreement: An attack on one would be viewed as an
attack on all. Without firing a single shot, this Alliance would prevent the Iron Curtain from descending on
the free nations of Western Europe. It would lead eventually to the crumbling of a wall in Berlin and the end
of the Communist threat. Two decades later, with 28 member nations that stretched from the Baltic to the
Mediterranean, NATO remains the strongest alliance that the world has ever known.
At the crossroads where we stand today, this shared history gives us hope -- but it must not give us rest.
This generation cannot stand still. We cannot be content merely to celebrate the achievements of the 20th
century, or enjoy the comforts of the 21st century; we must learn from the past to build on its success. We
must renew our institutions, our alliances. We must seek the solutions to the challenges of this young
century.
This is our generation. This is our time. And I am confident that we can meet any challenge as long as we
are together.
Such an effort is never easy. It's always harder to forge true partnerships and sturdy alliances than to act
alone, or to wait for the action of somebody else. It's more difficult to break down walls of division than to
simply allow our differences to build and our resentments to fester. So we must be honest with ourselves. In
recent years we've allowed our Alliance to drift. I know that there have been honest disagreements over
policy, but we also know that there's something more that has crept into our relationship. In America, there's
a failure to appreciate Europe's leading role in the world. Instead of celebrating your dynamic union and
seeking to partner with you to meet common challenges, there have been times where America has shown
arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive.
But in Europe, there is an anti-Americanism that is at once casual but can also be insidious. Instead of
recognizing the good that America so often does in the world, there have been times where Europeans
choose to blame America for much of what's bad.
On both sides of the Atlantic, these attitudes have become all too common. They are not wise. They do not
represent the truth. They threaten to widen the divide across the Atlantic and leave us both more isolated.
They fail to acknowledge the fundamental truth that America cannot confront the challenges of this century
alone, but that Europe cannot confront them without America.
So I've come to Europe this week to renew our partnership, one in which America listens and learns from
our friends and allies, but where our friends and allies bear their share of the burden. Together, we must
forge common solutions to our common problems.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
So let me say this as clearly as I can: America is changing, but it cannot be America alone that changes. We
are confronting the greatest economic crisis since World War II. The only way to confront this
unprecedented crisis is through unprecedented coordination.
Over the last few days, I believe that we have begun that effort. The G20 summit in London was a success
of nations coming together, working out their differences, and moving boldly forward. All of us are moving
aggressively to restore growth and lending. All of us have agreed to the most substantial overhaul of our
international financial system in a generation. No one is exempt. No more will the world's financial players
be able to make risky bets at the expense of ordinary people. Those days are over. We are ushering a new
era of responsibility, and that is something we should all be proud of.
As we take these steps, we also affirm that we must not erect new barriers to commerce; that trade wars
have no victors. We can't give up on open markets, even as we work to ensure that trade is both free and
fair. We cannot forget how many millions that trade has lifted out of poverty and into the middle class. We
can't forget that part of the freedom that our nations stood for throughout the Cold War was the opportunity
that comes from free enterprise and individual liberty.
I know it can be tempting to turn inward, and I understand how many people and nations have been left
behind by the global economy. And that's why the United States is leading an effort to reach out to people
around the world who are suffering, to provide them immediate assistance and to extend support for food
security that will help them lift themselves out of poverty.
All of us must join together in this effort, not just because it is right, but because by providing assistance to
those countries most in need, we will provide new markets, we will drive the growth of the future that lifts all
of us up. So it's not just charity; it's a matter of understanding that our fates are tied together -- not just the
fate of Europe and America, but the fate of the entire world.
And as we restore our common prosperity, we must stand up for our common security. As we meet here
today, NATO has still embarked on its first mission overseas in Afghanistan, and my administration has just
completed a review of our policy in that region.
Now, I understand that this war has been long. Our allies have already contributed greatly to this endeavor.
You've sent your sons and daughters to fight alongside ours, and we honor and respect their service and
sacrifice.
And I also know that there's some who have asked questions about why are we still in Afghanistan? What
does this mean? What's its purpose? Understand we would not deploy our own troops if this mission was
not indispensable to our common security. As President, I can tell you there's no decision more difficult,
there's no duty more painful, than signing a letter to the family of somebody who has died in war.
So I understand that there is doubt about this war in Europe. There's doubt at times even in the United
States. But know this: The United States of America did not choose to fight a war in Afghanistan. We were
attacked by an al Qaeda network that killed thousands on American soil, including French and Germans.
Along the border of Afghanistan and Pakistan, those terrorists are still plotting today. And they're -- if there is
another al Qaeda attack, it is just as likely, if not more, that it will be here in Europe in a European city.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I've made a commitment to Afghanistan, and I've asked our NATO partners for more civilian and military
support and assistance. We do this with a clear purpose: to root out the terrorists who threaten all of us, to
train the Afghan people to sustain their own security and to help them advance their own opportunity, and to
quicken the day when our troops come home.
We have no interest in occupying Afghanistan. We have more than enough to do in rebuilding America. But
this is a mission that tests whether nations can come together in common purpose on behalf of our common
security. That's what we did together in the 20th century. And now we need an alliance that is even stronger
than when it brought down a mighty wall in Berlin.
That's why we applaud France's decision to expand and deepen its participation in NATO, just as we
support a strong European defense. That's why we welcome Croatia and Albania into the fold. And that is
why we must ensure that NATO is equipped and capable of facing down the threats and challenges of this
new age. This is one of our central tasks.
And we also know that in the 21st century, security is more complex than military power. This is the
generation that must also stop the spread of the pollution that is slowly killing our planet, from shrinking
coastlines and devastating storms to widespread misery and famine and drought. The effects of climate
change are now in plain sight.
Europe has acted with a seriousness of purpose that this challenge demands. And in the last few months
I'm proud to say that America has begun to take unprecedented steps to transform the way that we use
energy. We appointed a special envoy to help us lead a global effort to reduce the carbon that we send in
the atmosphere.
But we all know that time is running out. And that means that America must do more. Europe must do more.
China and India must do more. Rolling back the tide of a warming planet is a responsibility that we have to
ourselves, to our children, and all of those who will inherit God's creation long after we are gone. So let us
meet that responsibility together. I am confident that we can meet it. But we have to begin today.
And let us resolve that when future generations look back on ours, they will be able to say that we did our
part to make this world more peaceful.
It's perhaps the most difficult work of all to resolve age-old conflicts, to heal ancient hatreds, to dissolve the
lines of suspicion between religions and cultures, and people who may not look like us, or have the same
faith that we do, or come from the same place. But just because it's difficult does not make the work any
less important. It does not absolve us from trying.
And to that end, America will sustain our effort to forge and secure a lasting peace between the Israelis and
the Palestinians. I've sent a clear message to the leaders and peoples of Iran that while we have real
differences, we also have mutual interests, and we seek new engagement based on mutual respect. And it
is in that spirit that America and Europe must reach out to the vast majority of Muslims in our nations and in
all nations. We seek only hope of peace and partnership, and the opportunity of a better life.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
We cannot simply solve these conflicts militarily. We have to open our minds and we have to open our
hearts to the differences among us and the commonalities between us. With every threat that we face, a
new day is possible. We can't get there alone. As it was in the darkest days after World War II, when a
continent lay in ruins and an atomic cloud had settled over the world, we must make the journey together.
We know that transformational change is possible. We know this because of three reasons: First, because,
for all our differences, there are certain values that bind us together and reveal our common humanity: the
universal longing to live a life free from fear, and free from want; a life marked by dignity and respect and
simple justice.
Our two republics were founded in service of these ideals. In America, it is written into our founding
documents as "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness." In France: "Liberté" -- absolutely -- "egalité,
fraternité." Our moral authority is derived from the fact that generations of our citizens have fought and bled
to uphold these values in our nations and others.
And that's why we can never sacrifice them for expedience's sake. That's why I've ordered the closing of the
detention center in Guantanamo Bay. That's why I can stand here today and say without equivocation or
exception that the United States of America does not and will not torture.
The second way that we can turn challenge into opportunity is through our persistence in the face of
difficulty. In an age of instant gratification, it's tempting to believe that every problem can and should be
solved in the span of a week. When these problems aren't solved, we conclude that our efforts to solve
them must have been in vain. But that's not how progress is made. Progress is slow. It comes in fits and
starts, because we try and we fail and then we try something else. And when there are setbacks and
disappointments we keep going. We hold firm to our core values, and we hold firm to our faith in one
another.
The third reason we know that we can change this world is because of men and women like the young
people who are here today. Each time we find ourselves at a crossroads, paralyzed by worn debates and
stale thinking, the old ways of doing things, a new generation rises up and shows the way forward. As
Robert Kennedy once told a crowd of students in South Africa, "It is a revolutionary world that we live in, and
thus, it is young people who must take the lead." Because young people are unburdened by the biases or
prejudices of the past. That is a great privilege of youth. But it's also a tremendous responsibility because it
is you who must ultimately decide what we do with this incredible moment in history.
We just emerged from an era marked by irresponsibility, and it would be easy to choose the path of
selfishness or apathy, of blame or division. But that is a danger that we cannot afford. The challenges are
too great. It is a revolutionary world that we live in, and history shows us that we can do improbable,
sometimes impossible things. We stand here in a city that used to stand at the center of European conflict;
only now it is the center of European union. We did that together. Now we must not give up on one another.
We must renew this relationship for a new generation, in a new century. We must hold firm to our common
values, hold firm to our faith in one another. Together, I'm confident that we can achieve the promise of a
new day.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
Q&A
Please, everybody have a seat. So the way this works -- do we have microphones in the audience? Yes?
So just raise your hand if you want a question, and I will call on you. I think we have some translators. If you
want to speak French and German, my French and German are terrible. But we have people who speak
very good French and very good German who will translate your question, and translate my answer. And I
will try to get as many questions as I can get in, in the remaining 20 minutes or so that we have.
And I will start with this young lady right here. Yes, you, right there. Please introduce yourself. Hold on, I
can't hear you yet. Can we increase the sound on the mic? Let's try again. Oh, I called -- now, I just want to
say I did not call on the American on purpose.
Q [Inaudible.]
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, after only two months, that's kind of a big question. But here's what I would like
to see. And, look, you aim high knowing that you'll make mistakes and sometimes you'll fall short.
Number one, my first task is to restore the economy of the United States, but, in concert with other nations,
to restore global economic growth. That's my number one task, because we are going through the worst
crisis since the 1930s.
That means that not only do we have to fix the banking system, put common-sense regulations in place to
prevent a crisis like this from ever happening again, making sure that we are keeping trade relationships
between countries open -- but it also means helping developing countries and poor countries who, through
no fault of their own, have been devastated by this crisis, and if we allow them to collapse will ultimately be
a drag on our ability to prosper.
Emerging markets have actually been the drivers of economic growth over the last several years. If we can
get millions of Chinese to prosper, that is ultimately good for us. If we can get all the Indians in poverty to
suddenly be able to buy a refrigerator or send their children to college, that will raise everybody's living
standards, because those will be enormous new markets for all of us.
So what I want to be able to do is not only fix the immediate crisis, but, working in partnership with other
countries, create a path for sustainable, responsible growth. And I think we can do that. There are a lot of
people who benefit from globalization, but there are also people who have been harmed by globalization.
Globalization in and of itself can be good, but can also be destructive.
If we create the right framework so that what happened in the banking system can't happen again, then
globalization can be good for everybody and lift everybody's living standards up. And by the way, history
has shown us that we are most vulnerable to war and conflict when people are desperate economically. And
nobody knows that history more than Europe.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
So that would be number one. Number two is I would like to be able to say that as a consequence of my
work, that we drastically lessened the threat of not only terrorism but also nuclear terrorism. And we can't
reduce the threat of a nuclear weapon going off unless those who possess the most nuclear weapons -- the
United States and Russia -- take serious steps to actually reduce our stockpiles.
So we are going to -- so we want to pursue that vigorously in the years ahead. And I had a excellent
meeting with President Medvedev of Russia to get started that process of reducing our nuclear stockpiles,
which will then give us greater moral authority to say to Iran, don't develop a nuclear weapon; to say to
North Korea, don't proliferate nuclear weapons.
In my own country, what I think is very important is that we finally get a health care system that is reliable
and cost-effective. That's something that -- you know, that's a social safety net that exits in almost all of
Europe that doesn't exist in the United States. You have millions of people who work hard every single day,
but if they get sick they could potentially lose everything. And in a country as wealthy as ours, that's not
acceptable to me.
So we are going to work hard to make sure that we have a health care system that won't be identical to
what you have in Europe -- each country has its own traditions and approaches -- but that provides people
quality, affordable, accessible health care.
And then, I would like to see us in the United States take the lead on a new approach to energy -- because
none of the developed countries are going to be able to sustain their growth if we don't start using energy
differently, and the world cannot survive all countries using energy in the same ways that we use it.
I was meeting with the Indian Prime Minister yesterday after the summit -- a very good and wise man, Prime
Minister Singh -- and he was talking about how Indian growth rates have gone up 9 percent every year.
They need to grow at that pace in order to bring hundreds of millions of people in their country out of abject
poverty, desperate poverty. They have to grow at a rapid pace.
Now, he actually is committed to working towards dealing with the climate change issue, but he made a very
simple point, which is a point that I understood before the meeting and all of us should not forget -- and that
is that you cannot expect poor countries, or relatively poor countries, to be partners with us on climate
change if we are not taking the lead, given that our carbon footprint is many times more than theirs per
capita. I mean, each one of us in the developed world, I don't care how environmentally conscious you are,
how green you are -- I'm sure there are some green folks here -Q Yes!
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Yes! I don't care how green you are, you are -- you have a much bigger carbon
footprint than the average Indian, or the average person from China. And so we in developed countries then
-- it's critical for us to lead by example by becoming more energy efficient, and we also have to harness
technology and shared scientific breakthroughs in order to find more sustainable energy patterns.
Now, I've got other things that I want to do, but that's a pretty long list. Let me go on to a few more
questions.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
All right, now, I know there's some other Americans in the crowd. But do me a favor, Americans, wait till we
get back home and I'll do a town hall there -- because I want to hear from my French and German and
European friends. All right. And -- wait, wait, wait -- this gentleman right here in the glasses.
Q Thank you, Mr. President. I'm a student from Heidelberg, Germany, and -- my mother tongue is German,
but my French is not good enough, so I ask my question in English.
You mentioned in your speech that we are a lucky generation. We live in peace, we live in democracies and
free states, and we really -- we are very pleased to have this situation in Europe. But this is not the case all
over the world, even not in Europe. Look to Belarus, for example; there's an autocratic regime.
And so my question concerns the many children all over the world that live in poverty, under human rights
violation. They have hunger, they have no education, and other problems. So what is your strategy, Mr.
President, to solve this problem?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, it's an excellent question, and the -- first of all, I think one of the things that we
should be very proud of from the G20 summit yesterday was that we made a significant commitment to
additional resources through the IMF and other mechanisms to provide assistance to emerging markets and
poor countries that, as I said, are bearing the burden of a collapse in the financial system that they had
nothing to do with.
The problem is so many of these countries had export-oriented markets, and when the economies
contracted in our developing nations, it made them extremely vulnerable. You know, you have a country like
Botswana, which is actually a well-managed country that has made enormous progress, but their main
revenue generator is diamond sales, and they have literally seen the diamond market collapse -- in part
because they couldn't get trade financing, in part because the demand in developed countries has dropped
off. So we started to make progress there. Our most important task right now is helping them get through
this crisis.
Over the long term, though, we've got to have a strategy that recognizes that the interest of the developed
world in feeding the hungry, in educating children, that that's not just charity; it's in our interest. There's not a
direct correlation between poverty and violence and conflict and terrorism. But I can tell you that if children
have no education whatsoever, if young men are standing idle each and every day, and feel completely
detached and completely removed from the modern world, they are more likely, they are more susceptible
to ideologies that appeal to violence and destruction.
If you have no health facilities whatsoever in countries in Africa, these days a pandemic can get on a plane
and be in Strasbourg or New York City or Chicago overnight. So we better think about making sure that
there are basic public health facilities and public health infrastructure in those countries, because we can't
shield ourselves from these problems. So that means developed countries have to increase aid, but it also
means that the countries who are receiving aid have to use it wisely.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
My father was from Kenya. And when I traveled to Kenya -- I had just been elected to the United States
Senate -- everybody was very excited and they greeted me as if I was already a head of state, and there
were people waving and lining the streets. I went to speak at a university and I had to be honest, which was,
America has an obligation to provide Kenya help on a whole range of issues, but if Kenya doesn't solve its
own corruption problem, then Kenya will never grow. It will never be able to provide for its own.
And so there's nothing wrong with the developed nations insisting that we will increase our commitments,
that we will design our aid programs more effectively, that we will open up our markets to trade from poor
countries, but that we will also insist that there is good governance and rule of law, and other critical factors
in order to make these countries work.
We spend so much time talking about democracy -- and obviously we should be promoting democracy
everywhere we can. But democracy, a well-functioning society that promotes liberty and equality and
fraternity, a well-functioning society does not just depend on going to the ballot box. It also means that
you're not going to be shaken down by police because the police aren't getting properly paid. It also means
that if you want to start a business, you don't have to pay a bribe. I mean, there are a whole host of other
factors that people need to -- need to recognize in building a civil society that allows a country to be
successful. And hopefully that will -- that approach will be reflected not just in my administration's policies
but in the policies that are pursued by international agencies around the world. Okay, good.
All right, right up -- I've got two of you, so you have to choose one. Which one should I call on? I don't want
to -- you're standing right next to each other. Oops. Well, I'm sorry, you know what, he actually called on the
-- no, no, no, I was actually pointing down here. I didn't see those two ladies back there. Here you go, this
one right here. Go ahead.
Q Well, hello, Mr. President. I'm sorry, I'm from Chicago, excuse me.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Are you?
Q I'm also a student in the high school -- the international high school -PRESIDENT OBAMA: Well, no, I'm sorry, if you're American I can't -Q I'm also French.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Wait, wait, wait, wait, hold on. She said she's also French. What does that mean?
Q Double nationality.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Dual nationality. What do you think, should we let her ask the question? Okay, go
ahead.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
Q Thank you. Do you think that the economic crisis is an opportunity to restructure our industries in an
ecological and sustainable way? And I also was wondering whether the dog was already in the White House
or not.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: The -- we are getting a dog. This is a very important question in the United States -what kind of dog we're getting and when we're getting it. It should be there soon.
I do think that in crisis there's always opportunity if it's used properly. So, for example, in the United States
we decided to pass a large stimulus package to help growth at a time when the private sector was having a
very difficult time.
Now, we could have just spent the money on the same old ways of doing things, but part of what we've
decided was, if we're going to be spending a lot of government money anyway, why not spend it to double
the amount of renewable energy? Why not spend it on retrofitting existing government buildings so that we
drastically reduce their energy consumption? Why not start building high-speed rail?
One thing that, as an American who is proud as anybody of my country, I am always jealous about
European trains. And I said to myself, why can't we have -- why can't we have high-speech rail? And so
we're investing in that as well.
So on the transportation front, on -- with respect to building construction, on a whole range of issues, we are
investing in new technologies that will make us more energy efficient. And that is one of the building blocks
that's needed in order for us to reduce our carbon footprint and to work with other countries to achieve the
climate change goals that I think are going to be so important.
I'm getting the signal that I've only got time for two more questions. Oh! I'm going to ask that young man in
the suit -- because he got dressed up today. I know he doesn't usually wear a suit -- yes. Go ahead, go
ahead.
Q I just want to know what do you expect from the French and the European countries regarding the war on
terror?
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Good. That's a good question. Look, I think that over the last seven, eight years, as I
said in my speech, a lot of tensions have developed between the United States and Europe. And one of the
legacies, I hope, from my administration is, is that we start bringing our historic alliance back together in a
much more effective way.
Now, that doesn't mean that we're not going to have honest disagreements. All countries have
disagreements between themselves. But I think that we can work much more effectively and cooperatively,
and maintain that core trust that we have towards each other.
Nowhere have we seen more suspicion than around questions of war and peace and how we respond to
terrorism. When 9/11 happened, Europe responded as a true friend would respond to the United States,
saying, "We are all Americans."

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
All of us have a stake in ensuring that innocent people who were just going about their business, going to
work, suddenly find themselves slaughtered -- all of us have an interest in preventing that kind of vicious,
evil act.
But after the initial NATO engagement in Afghanistan, we got sidetracked by Iraq, and we have not fully
recovered that initial insight that we have a mutual interest in ensuring that organizations like al Qaeda
cannot operate. And I think that it is important for Europe to understand that even though I'm now President
and George Bush is no longer President, al Qaeda is still a threat, and that we cannot pretend somehow
that because Barack Hussein Obama got elected as President, suddenly everything is going to be okay.
It is going to be a very difficult challenge. Al Qaeda is still bent on carrying out terrorist activity. It is -- don't
fool yourselves -- because some people say, well, you know, if we changed our policies with respect to the
Israeli-Palestinian conflict, or if we were more respectful towards the Muslim world, suddenly these
organizations would stop threatening us. That's just not the case.
It is true that we have to change our behavior in showing the Muslim world greater respect, and changing
our language and changing our tone. It is true that we have to work very hard for Israeli-Palestinian peace.
But what is also true is that these organizations are willing to kill innocent people because of a twisted,
distorted ideology. And we, as democracies and as people who value human life, can't allow those
organizations to operate.
So here's the bottom line. The United States has reviewed and redesigned its approach to Afghanistan. We
believe that we cannot just win militarily. We have to win through development aid. We have to win through
increasing the capacity of the Afghan government to provide basic services to its people and to uphold rule
of law. We have to work with the Pakistani government so that they are more trusted by their population and
have more control so that they can then go -- help us go after these terrorists. We have to encourage
diplomacy in the region.
So it can't just be a military strategy and we will be in partnership with Europe on the development side and
on the diplomatic side. But there will be a military component to it, and Europe should not simply expect the
United States to shoulder that burden alone. We should not because this is a joint problem and it requires
joint effort.
One last point I will make. In dealing with terrorism, we can't lose sight of our values and who we are. That's
why I closed Guantanamo. That's why I made very clear that we will not engage in certain interrogation
practices. I don't believe that there is a contradiction between our security and our values. And when you
start sacrificing your values, when you lose yourself, then over the long term that will make you less secure.
When we saw what happened in Abu Ghraib, that wasn't good for our security -- that was a recruitment tool
for terrorism. Humiliating people is never a good strategy to battle terrorism.
So we are going to conduct our operations in a way that reflect our best selves and make sure that we are
proud. And that, in turn, will allow the Europeans, I think, to feel good about our joint efforts, and also not to
have excuses not to participate in those joint efforts. All right?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
Okay, last question. All right, let me see here. All right, that young lady in the red right there, right there. She
had all her friends helping her out.
Q Thank you. Hi, I'm Enis Otto [phonetic] from Heidelberg. And I'm totally European. And first of all, I wanted
to tell you that your name in Hungarian means "peach."
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Peach?
Q Yes.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Oh, okay. Well, how about that. I did not know that.
Q Yes, now you know it. And we wanted to know if you -- did you ever regret to have run for presidency till
now? I mean, well, did you ever ask yourself, am I sure to manage -- yes.
PRESIDENT OBAMA: Yes, it's a good question. Michelle definitely asked that question. You know, there
are -- there have been times, certainly, during the campaign, and there have been times over the last
several months where you feel a lot of weight on your shoulders. There's no doubt about it.
During the campaign, the biggest sacrifice -- the thing that was most difficult was that I was away from my
family all the time. In addition to missing -- in addition to being jealous about high-speed rail and the nice
trains here, I'm also jealous of the fact that campaigns here only last a few months, whereas in the United
States we were running for two years. So I was away from home all the time, and that was very difficult
because not only do I have a wonderful wife, but I have two perfect daughters. And so, you know, I missed
them a lot.
But the nice thing is now that I'm President, it turns out I have this really nice office in my house called the
Oval Office, and so it only takes me a few seconds to get upstairs, and I'm home for dinner every night.
You also lose privacy and autonomy -- or anonymity. You know, it's very frustrating now -- it used to be
when I came to Europe, that I could just wander down to a café and sit and have some wine and watch
people go by, and go into a little shop, and watch the sun go down. Now I'm in hotel rooms all the time and I
have security around me all the time. And so just -- you know, losing that ability to just take a walk, that is
something that is frustrating.
But having said all that, I truly believe that there's nothing more noble than public service. Now, that doesn't
mean that you have to run for President. You know, you might work for Doctors Without Borders, or you
might volunteer for an -- or you might be somebody working for the United Nations, or you might be the
mayor of Strasbourg. Right? I mean, they're all -- you might volunteer in your own community.
But the point is that what I found at a very young age was that if you only think about yourself -- how much
money can I make, what can I buy, how nice is my house, what kind of fancy car do I have -- that over the
long term I think you get bored. I think your life becomes -- I think if you're only thinking about yourself, your
life becomes diminished; and that the way to live a full life is to think about, what can I do for others? How
can I be a part of this larger project of making a better world?

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, that could be something as simple as making -- as the joy of taking care of your family and watching
your children grow and succeed. But I think especially for the young people here, I hope you also consider
other ways that you can serve, because the world has so many challenges right now, there's so many
opportunities to make a difference, and it would be a tragedy if all of you who are so talented and energetic,
if you let that go to waste; if you just stood back and watched the world pass you by.
Better to jump in, get involved. And it does mean that sometimes you'll get criticized and sometimes you'll
fail and sometimes you'll be disappointed, but you'll have a great adventure, and at the end of your life
hopefully you'll be able to look back and say, I made a difference.
All right. Thank you, everybody.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 14
</doc>
<doc id="file32329706" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Ted_Kennedy_Eulogy.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Ted%20Kennedy%20Eulogy.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Remarks at the Public Memorial for Ted Kennedy

Delivered 29 August 2009, Our Lady of Perpetual Help Basilica, Boston

Your Eminence, Vicki, Kara, Edward, Patrick, Curran, Caroline, members of the Kennedy family,
distinguished guests, and fellow citizens:
Today we say goodbye to the youngest child of Rose and Joseph Kennedy. The world will long remember
their son Edward as the heir to a weighty legacy; a champion for those who had none; the soul of the
Democratic Party; and the lion of the U.S. Senate -- a man whose name graces nearly one thousand laws,
and who penned more than three hundred himself.
But those of us who loved him, and ache with his passing, know Ted Kennedy by the other titles he held:
Father. Brother. Husband. Uncle Teddy, or as he was often known to his younger nieces and nephews,
"The Grand Fromage," or "The Big Cheese." I, like so many others in the city where he worked for nearly
half a century, knew him as a colleague, a mentor, and above all, a friend.
Ted Kennedy was the baby of the family who became its patriarch; the restless dreamer who became its
rock. He was the sunny, joyful child, who bore the brunt of his brothers' teasing, but learned quickly how to
brush it off. When they tossed him off a boat because he didn't know what a jib was, six-year-old Teddy got
back in and learned to sail. When a photographer asked the newly-elected Bobby to step back at a press
conference because he was casting a shadow on his younger brother, Teddy quipped, "It'll be the same in
Washington."
This spirit of resilience and good humor would see Ted Kennedy through more pain and tragedy than most
of us will ever know. He lost two siblings by the age of sixteen. He saw two more taken violently from the
country that loved them. He said goodbye to his beloved sister, Eunice, in the final days of his own life. He
narrowly survived a plane crash, watched two children struggle with cancer, buried three nephews, and
experienced personal failings and setbacks in the most public way possible.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is a string of events that would have broken a lesser man. And it would have been easy for Teddy to let
himself become bitter and hardened; to surrender to self-pity and regret; to retreat from public life and live
out his years in peaceful quiet. No one would have blamed him for that.
But that was not Ted Kennedy. As he told us, "...[I]ndividual faults and frailties are no excuse to give in - and
no exemption from the common obligation to give of ourselves." Indeed, Ted was the "Happy Warrior" that
the poet William Wordsworth spoke of when he wrote:
As tempted more; more able to endure,
As more exposed to suffering and distress;
Thence, also, more alive to tenderness.
Through his own suffering, Ted Kennedy became more alive to the plight and suffering of others -- the sick
child who could not see a doctor; the young soldier sent to battle without armor; the citizen denied her rights
because of what she looks like or who she loves or where she comes from. The landmark laws that he
championed -- the Civil Rights Act, the Americans with Disabilities Act, immigration reform, children's health
care, the Family and Medical Leave Act -- all have a running thread. Ted Kennedy's life's work was not to
champion those with wealth or power or special connections. It was to give a voice to those who were not
heard; to add a rung to the ladder of opportunity; to make real the dream of our founding. He was given the
gift of time that his brothers were not, and he used that gift to touch as many lives and right as many wrongs
as the years would allow.
We can still hear his voice bellowing through the Senate chamber, face reddened, fist pounding the podium,
a veritable force of nature, in support of health care or workers' rights or civil rights. And yet, while his
causes became deeply personal, his disagreements never did. While he was seen by his fiercest critics as a
partisan lightning rod, that is not the prism through which Ted Kennedy saw the world, nor was it the prism
through which his colleagues saw him. He was a product of an age when the joy and nobility of politics
prevented differences of party and philosophy from becoming barriers to cooperation and mutual respect -a time when adversaries still saw each other as patriots.
And that's how Ted Kennedy became the greatest legislator of our time. He did it by hewing to principle, but
also by seeking compromise and common cause -- not through deal-making and horse-trading alone, but
through friendship, and kindness, and humor. There was the time he courted Orrin Hatch's support for the
Children's Health Insurance Program by having his Chief of Staff serenade the Senator with a song Orrin
had written himself; the time he delivered shamrock cookies on a china plate to sweeten up a crusty
Republican colleague; and the famous story of how he won the support of a Texas Committee Chairman on
an immigration bill. Teddy walked into a meeting with a plain manila envelope, and showed only the
Chairman that it was filled with the Texan's favorite cigars. When the negotiations were going well, he would
inch the envelope closer to the Chairman. When they weren't, he would pull it back. Before long, the deal
was done.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
It was only a few years ago, on St. Patrick's Day, when Teddy buttonholed me on the floor of the Senate for
my support on a certain piece of legislation that was coming up for vote. I gave him my pledge, but
expressed my skepticism that it would pass. But when the roll call was over, the bill garnered the votes it
needed, and then some. I looked at Teddy with astonishment and asked how he had pulled it off. He just
patted me on the back, and said "Luck of the Irish!"
Of course, luck had little to do with Ted Kennedy's legislative success, and he knew that. A few years ago,
his father-in-law told him that he and Daniel Webster just might be the two greatest senators of all time.
Without missing a beat, Teddy replied, "What did Webster do?"
But though it is Ted Kennedy's historic body of achievements we will remember, it is his giving heart that we
will miss. It was the friend and colleague who was always the first to pick up the phone and say, "I'm sorry
for your loss," or "I hope you feel better," or "What can I do to help?" It was the boss who was so adored by
his staff that over five hundred spanning five decades showed up for his 75th birthday party. It was the man
who sent birthday wishes and thank you notes and even his own paintings to so many who never imagined
that a U.S. Senator would take the time to think about someone like them. I have one of those paintings in
my private study -- a Cape Cod seascape that was a gift to a freshman legislator who happened to admire it
when Ted Kennedy welcomed him into his office the first week he arrived in Washington; by the way, that's
my second favorite gift from Teddy and Vicki after our dog Bo. And it seems like everyone has one of those
stories - the ones that often start with "You wouldn't believe who called me today."
Ted Kennedy was the father who looked after not only his own three children, but John's and Bobby's as
well. He took them camping and taught them to sail. He laughed and danced with them at birthdays and
weddings; cried and mourned with them through hardship and tragedy; and passed on that same sense of
service and selflessness that his parents had instilled in him. Shortly after Ted walked Caroline down the
aisle and gave her away at the altar, he received a note from Jackie that read, "On you the carefree
youngest brother fell a burden a hero would have begged to be spared. We are all going to make it because
you were always there with your love."
Not only did the Kennedy family make it because of Ted's love -- he made it because of theirs; and
especially because of the love and the life he found in Vicki. After so much loss and so much sorrow, it
could not have been easy for Ted Kennedy to risk his heart again. That he did is a testament to how deeply
he loved this remarkable woman from Louisiana. And she didn't just love him back. As Ted would often
acknowledge, Vicki saved him. She gave him strength and purpose; joy and friendship; and stood by him
always, especially in those last, hardest days.
We cannot know for certain how long we have here. We cannot foresee the trials or misfortunes that will test
us along the way. We cannot know God's plan for us.
What we can do is to live out our lives as best we can with purpose, and love, and joy. We can use each
day to show those who are closest to us how much we care about them, and treat others with the kindness
and respect that we wish for ourselves. We can learn from our mistakes and grow from our failures. And we
can strive at all costs to make a better world, so that someday, if we are blessed with the chance to look
back on our time here, we can know that we spent it well; that we made a difference; that our fleeting
presence had a lasting impact on the lives of other human beings.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is how Ted Kennedy lived. This is his legacy. He once said of his brother Bobby that he need not be
idealized or enlarged in death beyond what he was in life, and I imagine he would say the same about
himself. The greatest expectations were placed upon Ted Kennedy's shoulders because of who he was, but
he surpassed them all because of who he became. We do not weep for him today because of the prestige
attached to his name or his office. We weep because we loved this kind and tender hero who persevered
through pain and tragedy -- not for the sake of ambition or vanity; not for wealth or power; but only for the
people and the country he loved.
In the days after September 11th, Teddy made it a point to personally call each one of the 177 families of
this state who lost a loved one in the attack. But he didn't stop there. He kept calling and checking up on
them. He fought through red tape to get them assistance and grief counseling. He invited them sailing,
played with their children, and would write each family a letter whenever the anniversary of that terrible day
came along. To one widow, he wrote the following:
As you know so well, the passage of time never really heals the tragic memory of such a great loss,
but we carry on, because we have to, because our loved one would want us to, and because there
is still light to guide us in the world from the love they gave us.
We carry on.
Ted Kennedy has gone home now, guided by his faith and by the light of those he has loved and lost. At last
he is with them once more, leaving those of us who grieve his passing with the memories he gave, the good
he did, the dream he kept alive, and a single, enduring image -- the image of a man on a boat; white mane
tousled; smiling broadly as he sails into the wind, ready for what storms may come, carrying on toward
some new and wondrous place just beyond the horizon. May God Bless Ted Kennedy, and may he rest in
eternal peace.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329687" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Third_Major_Press_Conference.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Third%20Major%20Press%20Conference.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Third Major Press Conference (on Iran and Health Care)

Delivered 23 June 2009

Good afternoon, everybody. Today, I want to start by addressing three issues, and then I'll
take your questions.
First, I'd like to say a few words about the situation in Iran. The United States and the
international community have been appalled and outraged by the threats, the beatings, and
imprisonments of the last few days. I strongly condemn these unjust actions, and I join with
the American people in mourning each and every innocent life that is lost.
I've made it clear that the United States respects the sovereignty of the Islamic Republic of
Iran, and is not interfering with Iran's affairs. But we must also bear witness to the courage
and the dignity of the Iranian people, and to a remarkable opening within Iranian society. And
we deplore the violence against innocent civilians anywhere that it takes place.
The Iranian people are trying to have a debate about their future. Some in Iran -- some in the
Iranian government, in particular, are trying to avoid that debate by accusing the United
States and others in the West of instigating protests over the election. These accusations are
patently false. They're an obvious attempt to distract people from what is truly taking place
within Iran's borders. This tired strategy of using old tensions to scapegoat other countries
won't work anymore in Iran. This is not about the United States or the West; this is about the
people of Iran, and the future that they -- and only they -- will choose.
The Iranian people can speak for themselves. That's precisely what's happened in the last few
days. In 2009, no iron fist is strong enough to shut off the world from bearing witness to
peaceful protests of justice. Despite the Iranian government's efforts to expel journalists and
isolate itself, powerful images and poignant words have made their way to us through cell
phones and computers, and so we've watched what the Iranian people are doing.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
This is what we've witnessed. We've seen the timeless dignity of tens of thousands of Iranians
marching in silence. We've seen people of all ages risk everything to insist that their votes are
counted and that their voices are heard. Above all, we've seen courageous women stand up to
the brutality and threats, and we've experienced the searing image of a woman bleeding to
death on the streets. While this loss is raw and extraordinarily painful, we also know this:
Those who stand up for justice are always on the right side of history.
As I said in Cairo, suppressing ideas never succeeds in making them go away. The Iranian
people have a universal right to assembly and free speech. If the Iranian government seeks
the respect of the international community, it must respect those rights and heed the will of
its own people. It must govern through consent and not coercion. That's what Iran's own
people are calling for, and the Iranian people will ultimately judge the actions of their own
government.
Now, the second issue I want to address is our ongoing effort to build a clean energy
economy.
This week, the House of Representatives is moving ahead on historic legislation that will
transform the way we produce and use energy in America. This legislation will spark a clean
energy transformation that will reduce our dependence on foreign oil and confront the carbon
pollution that threatens our planet.
This energy bill will create a set of incentives that will spur the development of new sources of
energy, including wind, solar, and geothermal power. It will also spur new energy savings, like
efficient windows and other materials that reduce heating costs in the winter and cooling costs
in the summer.
These incentives will finally make clean energy the profitable kind of energy. And that will lead
to the development of new technologies that lead to new industries that could create millions
of new jobs in America -- jobs that can't be shipped overseas.
At a time of great fiscal challenges, this legislation is paid for by the polluters who currently
emit the dangerous carbon emissions that contaminate the water we drink and pollute the air
that we breathe. It also provides assistance to businesses and communities as they make the
gradual transition to clean energy technologies.
So I believe that this legislation is extraordinarily important for our country; it's taken great
effort on the part of many over the course of the past several months. And I want to thank
the Chair of the Energy and Commerce Committee, Henry Waxman; his colleagues on that
committee, including Congressmen Dingell, Ed Markey, and Rick Boucher. I also want to thank
Charlie Rangel, the Chair of the Ways and Means Committee, and Collin Peterson, the Chair of
the Agriculture Committee, for their many and ongoing contributions to this process. And I
want to express my appreciation to Nancy Pelosi and Steny Hoyer for their leadership.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We all know why this is so important. The nation that leads in the creation of a clean energy
economy will be the nation that leads the 21st century's global economy. That's what this
legislation seeks to achieve -- it's a bill that will open the door to a better future for this
nation. And that's why I urge members of Congress to come together and pass it.
The last issue I'd like to address is health care.
Right now, Congress is debating various health care reform proposals. This is obviously a
complicated issue, but I am very optimistic about the progress that they're making.
Like energy, this is legislation that must and will be paid for. It will not add to our deficits over
the next decade. We will find the money through savings and efficiencies within the health
care system -- some of which we've already announced.
We will also ensure that the reform we pass brings down the crushing cost of health care. We
simply can't have a system where we throw good money after bad habits. We need to control
the skyrocketing costs that are driving families, businesses, and our government into greater
and greater debt.
There's no doubt that we must preserve what's best about our health care system, and that
means allowing Americans who like their doctors and their health care plans to keep them.
But unless we fix what's broken in our current system, everyone's health care will be in
jeopardy. Unless we act, premiums will climb higher, benefits will erode further, and the rolls
of the uninsured will swell to include millions more Americans. Unless we act, one out of every
five dollars that we earn will be spent on health care within a decade. And the amount our
government spends on Medicare and Medicaid will eventually grow larger than what our
government spends on everything else today.
When it comes to health care, the status Q: uo is unsustainable and unacceptable. So reform
is not a luxury, it's a necessity. And I hope that Congress will continue to make significant
progress on this issue in the weeks ahead.
So let me open it up for questions, and I'll start with you, Jennifer.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. Your administration has said that the offer to talk to Iran's
leaders remains open. Can you say if that's still so, even with all the violence that has been
committed by the government against the peaceful protesters? And if it is, is there any red
line that your administration won't cross where that offer will be shut off?
President Obama: Well, obviously what's happened in Iran is profound. And we're still
waiting to see how it plays itself out. My position coming into this office has been that the
United States has core national security interests in making sure that Iran doesn't possess a
nuclear weapon and it stops exporting terrorism outside of its borders.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We have provided a path whereby Iran can reach out to the international community, engage,
and become a part of international norms. It is up to them to make a decision as to whether
they choose that path. What we've been seeing over the last several days, the last couple of
weeks, obviously is not encouraging, in terms of the path that this regime may choose to
take. And the fact that they are now in the midst of an extraordinary debate taking place in
Iran may end up coloring how they respond to the international community as a whole.
We are going to monitor and see how this plays itself out before we make any judgments
about how we proceed. But just to reiterate, there is a path available to Iran in which their
sovereignty is respected, their traditions, their culture, their faith is respected, but one in
which they are part of a larger community that has responsibilities and operates according to
norms and international rules that are universal. We don't know how they're going to respond
yet, and that's what we're waiting to see.
Q: So should there be consequences for what's happened so far?
President Obama: I think that the international community is, as I said before, bearing
witness to what's taking place. And the Iranian government should understand that how they
handle the dissent within their own country, generated indigenously, internally, from the
Iranian people, will help shape the tone not only for Iran's future but also its relationship to
other countries.
Since we're on Iran, I know Nico Pitney is here from Huffington Post.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President.
President Obama: Nico, I know that you, and all across the Internet, we've been seeing a lot
of reports coming directly out of Iran. I know that there may actually be Questions from
people in Iran who are communicating through the Internet. Do you have a question?
Q: Yes, I did, I wanted to use this opportunity to ask you a question directly from an Iranian.
We solicited questions last night from people who are still courageous enough to be
communicating online, and one of them wanted to ask you this: Under which conditions would
you accept the election of Ahmadinejad? And if you do accept it without any significant
changes in the conditions there, isn't that a betrayal of what the demonstrators there are
working towards?
President Obama: Well, look, we didn't have international observers on the ground. We
can't say definitively what exactly happened at polling places throughout the country. What
we know is that a sizeable percentage of the Iranian people themselves, spanning Iranian
society, consider this election illegitimate. It's not an isolated instance -- a little grumbling
here or there. There is significant questions about the legitimacy of the election.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so ultimately the most important thing for the Iranian government to consider is
legitimacy in the eyes of its own people, not in the eyes of the United States. And that's why
I've been very clear: Ultimately, this is up to the Iranian people to decide who their leadership
is going to be and the structure of their government.
What we can do is to say unequivocally that there are sets of international norms and
principles about violence, about dealing with peaceful dissent, that spans cultures, spans
borders. And what we've been seeing over the Internet and what we've been seeing in news
reports violates those norms and violates those principles.
I think it is not too late for the Iranian government to recognize that there is a peaceful path
that will lead to stability and legitimacy and prosperity for the Iranian people. We hope they
take it.
Jeff Mason of Reuters.
Q: Right here, sir. Switching gears slightly, in light of the financial regulation and reform that
you have made, how do you rate the performance of the Fed in handling the financial crisis?
And more specifically, how do you rate the performance of Ben Bernanke, and would you like
him to stay on when his term ends in January?
President Obama: I'm not going to make news about Ben Bernanke -- although I think he
has done a fine job under very difficult circumstances.
I would say that all financial regulators didn't do everything that needed to be done to prevent
the crisis from happening. And that's why we've put forward the boldest set of reforms in
financial regulation in 75 years, because there were too many gaps where there were laws on
the books that would have brought about a prevention of the crisis; the enforcement wasn't
there. In some cases, there just weren't sufficient laws on the books -- for example, with the
non-banking sector.
I think that the Fed probably performed better than most other regulators prior to the crisis
taking place, but I think they'd be the first to acknowledge that in dealing with systemic risk
and anticipating systemic risk, they didn't do everything that needed to be done.
I think since the crisis has occurred, Ben Bernanke has performed very well. And one of the
central concepts behind our financial regulatory reform is that there's got to be somebody who
is responsible not just for monitoring the health of individual institutions, but somebody who's
monitoring the systemic risks of the system as a whole. And we believe that the Fed has the
most technical expertise and the best track record in terms of doing that.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
But that's not the only part of financial regulation. One of the things that we're putting a huge
amount of emphasis on is the issue of consumer protection -- whether it's subprime loans that
were given out because nobody was paying attention to what was being peddled to
consumers, whether it's how credit cards are handled, how annuities are dealt with, what
people can expect in terms of understanding their 401(k)s. There's a whole bunch of financial
transactions out there where consumers are not protected the way they should, and that's
why we said we're going to put forward a consumer financial protection agency whose only
job it is to focus on those issues.
Now, the Fed was one of the regulators that had some of those consumer responsibilities. We
actually think that they're better off focusing on issues of broad systemic risk, and we have
just one agency that's focused on the consumer protection side.
Q: But is the Fed getting too powerful?
President Obama: If you look at what we've proposed, we are not so much expanding the
Fed's power as we are focusing what the Fed needs to do to prevent the kinds of crises that
are happening again. Another good example is the issue of resolution authority. I think it
wasn't that long ago where everybody was properly outraged about AIG, and the enormous
amounts of money the taxpayers had to put into AIG in order to prevent it from dragging the
entire financial system down with it.
Had we had the kinds of resolution authority, the kinds of laws that were in place that would
allow a orderly winding down of AIG, then potentially taxpayers could have saved a huge
amount of money. We want that power to be available so that taxpayers aren't on the hook.
All right? Major Garrett. Where's Major?
Q: Right here, sir. In your opening remarks, sir, you were -- you said about Iran that you
were appalled and outraged. What took you so long to say those words?
President Obama: I don't think that's accurate. Track what I've been saying. Right after the
election, I said that we had profound concerns about the nature of the election, but that it was
not up to us to determine what the outcome was. As soon as violence broke out -- in fact, in
anticipation of potential violence -- we were very clear in saying that violence was
unacceptable, that that was not how governments operate with respect to their people.
So we've been entirely consistent, Major, in terms of how we've approached this. My role has
been to say the United States is not going to be a foil for the Iranian government to try to
blame what's happening on the streets of Tehran on the CIA or on the White House; that this
is an issue that is led by and given voice to the frustrations of the Iranian people. And so
we've been very consistent the first day, and we're going to continue to be consistent in
saying this is not an issue about the United States; this is about an issue of the Iranian
people.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
What we've also been consistent about is saying that there are some universal principles,
including freedom of assembly and freedom of speech, making sure that governments are not
using coercion and violence and repression in terms of how they interact with peaceful
demonstrators. And we have been speaking out very clearly about that fact.
Q: Are Iranian diplomats still welcome at the embassy on the Fourth of July, sir?
President Obama: Well, I think as you're aware, Major, we don't have formal diplomatic
relations with -- we don't have formal diplomatic relations with Iran. I think that we have said
that if Iran chooses a path that abides by international norms and principles, then we are
interested in healing some of the wounds of 30 years, in terms of U.S.-Iranian relations. But
that is a choice that the Iranians are going to have to make.
Q: But the offer still stands?
President Obama: That's a choice the Iranians are going to have to make.
David Jackson.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. Two of the key players in the insurance industry, America's
Health Insurance Plans and Blue Cross-Blue Shield, sent a letter to the Senate this morning
saying that a government health insurance plan would "dismantle" private insurers. Why are
they wrong? And secondly, this public plan, is this non-negotiable? Would you sign a health
care bill without it?
President Obama: Well, let's talk first of all about health care reform more broadly.
I think in this debate there's been some notion that if we just stand pat we're okay. And that's
just not true. You know, there are polls out that show that 70 or 80 percent of Americans are
satisfied with the health insurance that they currently have. The only problem is that
premiums have been doubling every nine years, going up three times faster than wages. The
U.S. government is not going to be able to afford Medicare and Medicaid on its current
trajectory. Businesses are having to make very tough decisions about whether we drop
coverage or we further restrict coverage.
So the notion that somehow we can just keep on doing what we're doing and that's okay,
that's just not true. We have a longstanding critical problem in our health care system that is
pulling down our economy, it's burdening families, it's burdening businesses, and it is the
primary driver of our federal deficits. All right?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
So if we start from the premise that the status Q: uo is unacceptable, then that means we're
going to have to bring about some serious changes. What I've said is, our top priority has to
be to control costs. And that means not just tinkering around the edges. It doesn't mean just
lopping off reimbursements for doctors in any given year because we're trying to fix our
budget. It means that we look at the kinds of incentives that exist, what our delivery system
is like, why it is that some communities are spending 30 percent less than other communities
but getting better health care outcomes, and figuring out how can we make sure that
everybody is benefiting from lower costs and better quality by improving practices. It means
health IT. It means prevention.
So all these things are the starting point, I think, for reform. And I've said very clearly: If any
bill arrives from Congress that is not controlling costs, that's not a bill I can support. It's going
to have to control costs. It's going to have to be paid for. So there's been a lot of talk about,
well, a trillion-dollar price tag. What I've said is, if we're going to spend that much money,
then it's going to be largely funded through reallocating dollars that are already in the health
care system but aren't being spent well. If we're spending $177 billion over 10 years to
subsidize insurance companies under Medicare Advantage, when there's no showing that
people are healthier using that program than the regular Medicare program, well, that's not a
good deal for taxpayers. And we're going to take that money and we're going to use it to
provide better care at a cheaper cost to the American people. So that's point number one.
Number two, while we are in the process of dealing with the cost issue, I think it's also wise
policy and the right thing to do to start providing coverage for people who don't have health
insurance or are underinsured, are paying a lot of money for high deductibles. I get letters -two, three letters a day -- that I read of families who don't have health insurance, are going
bankrupt, are on the brink of losing their insurance; have deductibles that are so high that
even with insurance they end up with $50,000, $100,000 worth of debt; are at risk of losing
their homes.
And that has to be part of reform, making sure that even if you've got health insurance now,
you are not worried that when you lose your job or your employer decides to change policies
that somehow you're going to be out of luck. I think about the woman who was in Wisconsin
that I was with, who introduced me up in Green Bay -- 36 years old, double mastectomy;
breast cancer has now moved to her bones and she's got two little kids, a husband with a job.
They had health insurance, but they're still $50,000 in debt, and she's thinking, my main
legacy, if I don't survive this thing, is going to be leaving $100,000 worth of debt. So those
are the things that I'm prioritizing.
Now, the public plan I think is a important tool to discipline insurance companies. What we've
said is, under our proposal, let's have a system the same way that federal employees do,
same way that members of Congress do, where -- we call it an "exchange," or you can call it
a "marketplace" -- where essentially you've got a whole bunch of different plans.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
If you like your plan and you like your doctor, you won't have to do a thing. You keep your
plan. You keep your doctor. If your employer is providing you good health insurance, terrific,
we're not going to mess with it.
But if you're a small business person, if the insurance that's being offered is something you
can't afford, if you want to shop for a better price, then you can go to this exchange, this
marketplace, and you can look: Okay, this is how much this plan costs, this is how much that
plan costs, this is what the coverage is like, this is what fits for my family. As one of those
options, for us to be able to say, here's a public option that's not profit-driven, that can keep
down administrative costs and that provides you good, quality care for a reasonable price -as one of the options for you to choose, I think that makes sense.
Q: Won't that drive private insurers out of business?
President Obama: Why would it drive private insurers out of business? If private insurers
say that the marketplace provides the best quality health care, if they tell us that they're
offering a good deal, then why is it that the government -- which they say can't run anything - suddenly is going to drive them out of business? That's not logical.
Now, I think that there's going to be some healthy debates in Congress about the shape that
this takes. I think there can be some legitimate concerns on the part of private insurers that if
any public plan is simply being subsidized by taxpayers endlessly, that over time they can't
compete with the government just printing money.
So there are going to be some I think legitimate debates to be had about how this private
plan takes shape. But just conceptually, the notion that all these insurance companies who
say they're giving consumers the best possible deal, that they can't compete against a public
plan as one option, with consumers making the decision what's the best deal. That defies
logic, which is why I think you've seen in the polling data overwhelming support for a public
plan. All right?
Q: Is that non-negotiable?
President Obama: Chip.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. Following up on Major's question, some republicans on Capitol
Hill -- John McCain and Lindsey Graham, for example -- have said that up to this point, your
response on Iran has been timid and weak. Today, it sounded a lot stronger. It sounded like
the kind of speech John McCain has been urging you to give, saying that those who stand up
for justice are always on the right side of history, referring to an iron fist in Iran -- "deplore,"
"appalled," "outraged." Were you influenced at all by John McCain and Lindsey Graham
accusing you of being timid and weak?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: What do you think? Look, the -- I think John McCain has genuine passion
about many of these international issues, and I think that all of us share a belief that we want
justice to prevail. But only I'm the President of the United States, and I've got responsibilities
in making certain that we are continually advancing our national security interests and that we
are not used as a tool to be exploited by other countries.
I mean, you guys must have seen the reports. They've got some of the comments that I've
made being mistranslated in Iran, suggesting that I'm telling rioters to go out and riot some
more. There are reports suggesting that the CIA is behind all this -- all of which are patently
false. But it gives you a sense of the narrative that the Iranian government would love to play
into. So the -- members of Congress, they've got their constitutional duties, and I'm sure they
will carry them out in the way that they think is appropriate. I'm President of the United
States, and I'll carry out my duties as I think are appropriate. All right?
Q: By speaking so strongly today, aren't you giving the leadership in Iran the fodder to make
those arguments that it is about the United States?
President Obama: Look, I mean, I think that -- we can parse this as much as we want. I
think if you look at the statements that I've made, they've been very consistent. I just made a
statement on Saturday in which we said we deplore the violence. And so I think that in the
hothouse of Washington, there may be all kinds of stuff going back and forth in terms of
Republican critics versus the administration. That's not what is relevant to the Iranian people.
What's relevant to them right now is, are they going to have their voices heard?
And, frankly, a lot of them aren't paying a lot of attention to what's being said on Capitol Hill,
and probably aren't spending a lot of time thinking about what's being said here. They're
trying to figure out how can they make sure justice is served in Iran.
Q: So there's no news in your statement today?
President Obama: Chuck Todd.
Q: Mr. President, I want to follow up on Iran. You have avoided twice spelling out
consequences. You've hinted that there would be, from the international community, if they
continue to violate -- you said violate these norms. You seem to hint that there are human
rights violations taking place./
President Obama: I'm not hinting. I think that when a young woman gets shot on the street
when she gets out of her car, that's a problem.
Q: Then why won't you spell out the consequences that the Iranian --

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Because I think, Chuck, that we don't know yet how this thing is going to
play out. I know everybody here is on a 24-hour news cycle. I'm not.
Q: But shouldn't -- I mean, shouldn't the world and Iran -President Obama: Chuck, I answered -Q: -- but shouldn't the Iranian regime know that there are consequences?
President Obama: I answered the question, Chuck, which is that we don't yet know how this
is going to play out.
Jake Tapper.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. Before I ask my question, I'm wondering if you could actually
answer David's. Is the public plan non-negotiable?
President Obama: That's your question.
Q: Well, you didn't answer -President Obama: You think you're going to -- are you the ombudsman for the White House
press corps? What's your -- is that your question?
Q: Then I have a two-part question. Is the public plan non-negotiable? And while I appreciate
your Spock-like language about the logic of the health care plan, the public plan, it does seem
logical to a lot of people that if the government is offering a cheaper health care plan, then
lots of employers will want to have their employees covered by that cheaper plan, which will
not have to be for profit, unlike private plans, and may possibly benefit from some
government subsidies, who knows. And then their employees would be signed up for this
public plan, which would violate what you're promising the American people, that they will not
have to change health care plans if they like the plan they have.
President Obama: I got you. You're pitching, I'm catching. I got the question. First of all,
was the reference to Spock -- is that a crack on my ears? All right, I just want to make sure.
No?
Q: I would never make fun of your ears, sir.
President Obama: In answer to David's question, which you co-opted, we are still early in
this process, so we have not drawn lines in the sand other than that reform has to control
costs and that it has to provide relief to people who don't have health insurance or are
underinsured. Those are the broad parameters that we've discussed.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 11

AmericanRhetoric.com
There are a whole host of other issues where ultimately I may have a strong opinion, and I
will express those to members of Congress as this is shaping up. It's too early to say that.
Right now I will say that our position is that a public plan makes sense.
Now, let me go to the broader question you made about the public plan. As I said before, I
think that there is a legitimate concern if the public plan was simply eating off the taxpayer
trough, that it would be hard for private insurers to complete. If, on the other hand, the public
plan is structured in such a way where they've got to collect premiums and they've got to
provide good services, then if what the insurance companies are saying is true, that they're
doing their best to serve their customers, that they're in the business of keeping people well
and giving them security when they get sick, they should be able to compete.
Now, if it turns out that the public plan, for example, is able to reduce administrative costs
significantly, then you know what? I'd like insurance companies to take note and say, hey, if
the public plan can do that, why can't we? And that's good for everybody in the system. And I
don't think there should be any objection to that.
Now, by the way, I should point out that part of the reform that we've suggested is that if you
want to be a private insurer as part of the exchange, as part of this marketplace, this menu of
options that people can choose from, we're going to have some different rules for all
insurance companies -- one of them being that you can't preclude people from getting health
insurance because of a pre-existing condition, you can't cherry pick and just take the
healthiest people.
So there are going to be some ground rules that are going to apply to all insurance
companies, because I think the American people understand that, too often, insurance
companies have been spending more time thinking about how to take premiums and then
avoid providing people coverage than they have been thinking about how can we make sure
that insurance is there, health care is there when families need it.
But I'm confident that if -- I take those advocates of the free market to heart when they say
that the free market is innovative and is going to compete on service and is going to compete
on their ability to deliver good care to families. And if that's the case then this just becomes
one more option. If it's not the case then I think that that's something that the American
people should know.
Q: I'm sorry, but what about keeping your promise to the American people that they won't
have to change plans even if employers -President Obama: Well, no, no, I mean -- when I say if you have your plan and you like it
and your doctor has a plan, or you have a doctor and you like your doctor that you don't have
to change plans, what I'm saying is the government is not going to make you change plans
under health reform.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 12

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, are there going to be employers right now -- assuming we don't do anything -- let's say
that we take the advice of some folks who are out there and say, oh, this is not the time to do
health care, we can't afford it, it's too complicated, let's take our time, et cetera. So let's
assume that nothing happened. I can guarantee you that there's a possibility for a whole lot of
Americans out there that they're not going to end up having the same health care they have,
because what's going to happen is, as costs keep on going up, employers are going to start
making decisions: We've got to raise premiums on our employees; in some cases, we can't
provide health insurance at all.
And so there are going to be a whole set of changes out there. That's exactly why health
reform is so important.
Margaret, from McClatchy. Where's Margaret? There you are.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. As a former smoker, I understand the frustration and the fear
that comes with quitting. But with the new law that you signed yesterday regulating the
tobacco industry, I'd like to ask you a few questions. How many cigarettes a day -President Obama: A few questions?
Q: How many cigarettes a day do you now smoke? Do you smoke alone or in the presence of
other people? And do you believe the new law would help you to Q: uit? If so, why?
President Obama: Well, first of all, the new law that was put in place is not about me, it's
about the next generation of kids coming up. So I think it's fair, Margaret, to just say that you
just think it's neat to ask me about my smoking, as opposed to it being relevant to my new
law. But that's fine, I understand. It's an interesting human -- it's an interesting human
interest story.
But I've said before that, as a former smoker, I constantly struggle with it. Have I fallen off
the wagon sometimes? Yes. Am I a daily smoker, a constant smoker? No. I don't do it in front
of my kids, I don't do it in front of my family, and I would say that I am 95 percent cured, but
there are times where -- there are times where I mess up. And, I mean, I've said this before.
I get this question about once every month or so, and I don't know what to tell you, other
than the fact that, like folks who go to AA, once you've gone down this path, then it's
something you continually struggle with, which is precisely why the legislation we signed was
so important, because what we don't want is kids going down that path in the first place.
Okay?
Macarena Vidal?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 13

AmericanRhetoric.com
Q: Mr. President, you're meeting today with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. You're
meeting next week with Alvaro Uribe from Colombia. Two months ago in Trinidad at the
Summit of the Americas, you said that -- you called on Latin American countries to help you
with deeds, not words, particularly towards less democratic countries. Have you noticed any
particular progress in these two months, and can you give us examples?
President Obama: Well, first of all, I'm very much looking forward to seeing President
Bachelet. I think she's one of the finest leaders in Latin America, a very capable person. If you
look at how Chile has handled the recession, they've handled it very well in part because the
surpluses that they got when copper prices were high they set aside. And so they had the
resources to deal with the downturn. It's a good lesson for the United States. When we had
surpluses, they got dissipated.
We think that there's enormous possibilities of making progress in Latin America generally.
One of the things that I'll be talking about with President Bachelet is the coordination and
cooperation between the United State and Chile on clean energy. We'll have an announcement
when we do our press conference after my bilateral meeting on some important clean energy
partnerships. We're making important progress when it comes to exchanges on cancer
research. We continue to have a robust trade regime with Chile. And, by the way, Chile has
actually entered into some very interesting partnerships not just with the federal government,
but also with state governments like California.
So I think the relationship that we have with Chile -- which, by the way, does not fall in line
with U.S. foreign policy on every single issue -- but it's a respectful policy. Chile is an
important partner. I think that's the model that we want: partnership. The United States
doesn't dictate how Chile should view its own interests, but in fact we've achieved great
cooperation. And I will be looking at President Bachelet giving us further advice in terms of
how we can take the kind of relationship we have with Chile and expand that to our
relationships throughout Latin America.
Q: But my question is not only about that -- Chile, but about Latin American countries giving
you a hand on -- against less democratic countries.
President Obama: Well, the point is, is that I think Chile is leading by example. So I'm using
Chile as an example. But the same is true in Brazil, for example. I mean, President Lula came
in, and he's got a very different political orientation than most Americans do. He came up
through the trade union movement. He was perceived as a strong leftist. It turns out that he
was a very practical person, who although maintains relationships across the political
spectrum in Latin America, has instituted all sorts of smart market reforms that have made
Brazil prosper.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 14

AmericanRhetoric.com
And so if you take a Bachelet or a Lula, and the United States has a good working relationship
with them, then I think that points the way for other countries that may be where the
democratic tradition is not as deeply embedded as we'd like it to be. And we can make
common cause in showing those countries that, in fact, democracy, respect for property
rights, respects for market-based economies, rule of law -- that all those things can in fact
lead to greater prosperity, that that's not just a U.S. agenda, but that's a smart way to
increase the prosperity of your own people.
Okay, Hans Nichols. Hans.
Q: Thank you, Mr. President. If I can just return to the economy more generally. When you
were selling the economic stimulus package, you talked and your advisors and economists
talked about keeping unemployment below 8 percent. Last week you acknowledged that
unemployment is likely to reach double digits, being 10 percent. Do you think you need a
second stimulus package?
President Obama: Well, not yet, because I think it's important to see how the economy
evolves and how effective the first stimulus is. I think it's fair to say that -- keep in mind the
stimulus package was the first thing we did, and we did it a couple of weeks after
inauguration. At that point nobody understood what the depths of this recession were going to
look like. If you recall, it was only significantly later that we suddenly get a report that the
economy had tanked.
And so it's not surprising then that we missed the mark in terms of our estimates of where
unemployment would go. I think it's pretty clear now that unemployment will end up going
over 10 percent, if you just look at the pattern, because of the fact that even after employers
and businesses start investing again and start hiring again, typically it takes a while for that
employment number to catch up with economic recovery. And we're still not at actual
recovery yet.
So I anticipate that this is going to be a difficult -- difficult year, a difficult period.
Q: What's the high water mark, then, for unemployment? Eleven percent?
President Obama: Well, I'm not suggesting that I have a crystal ball. Since you just threw
back at us our last prognosis, let's not -- let's not engage in another one.
Q: Does that mean you won't be making predictions ever?
President Obama: But what I am saying is that -- here are some things I know for certain.
In the absence of the stimulus, I think our recession would be much worse. It would have
declined -- without the Recovery Act -- we know for a fact that states, for example, would
have laid off a lot more teachers, a lot more police officers, a lot more firefighters, every
single one of those individuals whose jobs were saved.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 15

AmericanRhetoric.com
As a consequence, they are still making their mortgage payments, they are still shopping. So
we know that the Recovery Act has had an impact.
Now, what we also know is this was the worst recession since the Great Depression, and
people are going through a very tough time right now. And I don't expect them to be satisfied.
I mean, one thing that -- as I sometimes glance at the various news outlets represented here,
I know that they're sometimes reporting of, oh, the administration is worried about this, or
their poll numbers are going down there -- look, the American people have a right to feel like
this is a tough time right now. What's incredible to me is how resilient the American people
have been and how they are still more optimistic than the facts alone would justify, because
this is a tough, tough period.
And I don't feel satisfied with the progress that we've made. We've got to get our Recovery
Act money out faster. We've got to make sure that the programs that we've put in place are
working the way they're supposed to. I think, for example, our mortgage program has
actually helped to modify mortgages for a lot of people, but it hasn't been keeping pace with
all the foreclosures that are taking place. I get letters every day from people who say, you
know, I appreciate that you put out this mortgage program, but the bank is still not letting me
modify my mortgage and I'm about to lose my home. And then I've got to call my staff and
team and find out why isn't it working for these folks, and can we adjust it, can we tweak it,
can we make it more aggressive?
This is a very, very difficult process. And what I've got to do is to make sure that we're
focused both on the short term, how can we provide families immediate relief and jumpstart
the economy as quickly as possible; and I've got to keep my eye on the long term, and the
long term is making sure that by reforming our health care system, by passing serious energy
legislation that makes us a clean energy economy, by revamping our education system, by
finally getting the financial regulatory reforms in place that are necessary for the 21st century
-- by doing all those things, we've got a foundation for long-term economic growth, and we
don't end up having to juice up the economy artificially through the kinds of bubble strategies
that helped to get us in the situation that we're in today.
Okay. I've got time for two more questions. April. Where's April?
Q: Right here.
President Obama: There you are. How are you?
Q: I'm fine. Back on the economy, Mr. President, people are criticizing this road to recovery
plan. Specifically, there are reports in The Washington Post that say that the African America
unemployment rate will go to 20 percent by the end of this year. And then you had your
Chairman of Economic Advisers say the target intervention may come next year if nothing
changes. Why not target intervention now to stop the bloodletting in the black unemployment
rate?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 16

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Look, first of all, we know that the African American unemployment rate,
the Latino unemployment rate, are consistently higher than the national average. And so, if
the economy as a whole is doing poorly, then you know that the African American community
is going to be doing poorly, and they're going to be hit even harder. And the best thing that I
can do for the African American community or the Latino community or the Asian community,
whatever community, is to get the economy as a whole moving. If I don't -- hold on one
second, let me answer the question -- if I don't do that, then I'm not going to be able to help
anybody. So that's priority number one.
It is true that in certain inner-city communities, the unemployment rate is -- was already sky
high even before this recession. The ladders available for people to enter into the job market
are even worse. And so we are interested in looking at proven programs that help people on a
pathway to jobs.
There was a reason why right before Father's Day I went to a program here locally in
Washington called Year Up, which has a proven track record of taking young, mostly minority
people, some of whom have graduated from high school, some maybe who've just gotten
their GED, and trained them on computers and provide them other technical skills, but also
train them on how to carry themselves in an office, how to write an e-mail -- some of the
social skills that will allow them to be more employable. They've got a terrific placement rate
after this one-year program. If there are ways that we can potentially duplicate some of those
programs, then we're going to do so.
So part of what we want to do is to find tools that will give people more opportunity, but the
most important thing I can do is to lift the economy overall. And that's what my strategy is
focused on.
All right. Last Question. Suzanne.
Q: Thank you. Back to Iran, putting a human face on this. Over the weekend, we saw a
shocking video of this woman, Neda, who had been shot in the chest and bled to death. Have
you seen this video?
President Obama: I have.
Q: What's your reaction?
President Obama: It's heartbreaking. It's heartbreaking. And I think that anybody who sees
it knows that there's something fundamentally unjust about that.
Q: We also have people on the ground who have been saying that the streets are quieter now
and that is because they feel that they're paralyzed by fear -- fear of people gone missing,
fear of violence, that perhaps this is a movement that's gone underground or perhaps is
dying. Do you have any concern over that?

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 17

AmericanRhetoric.com
President Obama: Yes. I have concern about how peaceful demonstrators and people who
want their votes counted may be stifled from expressing those concerns. I think, as I said
before, there are certain international norms of freedom of speech, freedom of expression -Q: Then why won't you allow the photos -President Obama: Hold on a second, Helen. That's a different question. And I think it's
important for us to make sure that we let the Iranian people know that we are watching
what's happening, that they are not alone in this process. Ultimately, though, what's going to
be most important is what happens in Iran. And we've all been struck by the courage of
people. And I mentioned this I think in a statement that I made a couple of days ago. Some of
you who had been covering my campaigns know this is one of my favorite expressions, was
Dr. King's expression that "the arc of the moral universe is long, but it bends towards justice."
We have to believe that ultimately justice will prevail.
All right. Thank you, guys.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 18
</doc>
<doc id="file32329714" filename="Barack_Obama_-_To_Congress_on_Health_Care.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20To%20Congress%20on%20Health%20Care.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech to a Joint Session of Congress on Health Care Reform

Delivered 9 September 2009

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Madam Speaker, Vice President Biden, members of Congress, and the American people:
When I spoke here last winter, this nation was facing the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression.
We were losing an average of 700,000 jobs per month. Credit was frozen. And our financial system was on
the verge of collapse.
As any American who is still looking for work or a way to pay their bills will tell you, we are by no means out
of the woods. A full and vibrant recovery is still many months away. And I will not let up until those
Americans who seek jobs can find them ­­ until those businesses that seek capital and credit can thrive; until
all responsible homeowners can stay in their homes. That is our ultimate goal. But thanks to the bold and
decisive action we've taken since January, I can stand here with confidence and say that we have pulled
this economy back from the brink.
I want to thank the members of this body for your efforts and your support in these last several months, and
especially those who've taken the difficult votes that have put us on a path to recovery. I also want to thank
the American people for their patience and resolve during this trying time for our nation.
But we did not come here just to clean up crises. We came here to build a future. So tonight, I return to
speak to all of you about an issue that is central to that future ­­ and that is the issue of health care.
I am not the first President to take up this cause, but I am determined to be the last. It has now been nearly
a century since Theodore Roosevelt first called for health care reform.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And ever since, nearly every President and Congress, whether Democrat or Republican, has attempted to
meet this challenge in some way. A bill for comprehensive health reform was first introduced by John
Dingell Sr. in 1943. Sixty­five years later, his son continues to introduce that same bill at the beginning of
each session.
Our collective failure to meet this challenge ­­ year after year, decade after decade ­­ has led us to the
breaking point. Everyone understands the extraordinary hardships that are placed on the uninsured, who
live every day just one accident or illness away from bankruptcy. These are not primarily people on
welfare. These are middle­class Americans. Some can't get insurance on the job. Others are self­
employed, and can't afford it, since buying insurance on your own costs you three times as much as the
coverage you get from your employer. Many other Americans who are willing and able to pay are still
denied insurance due to previous illnesses or conditions that insurance companies decide are too risky or
too expensive to cover.
We are the only democracy ­­ the only advanced democracy on Earth ­­ the only wealthy nation ­­ that
allows such hardship for millions of its people. There are now more than 30 million American citizens who
cannot get coverage. In just a two­year period, one in every three Americans goes without health care
coverage at some point. And every day, 14,000 Americans lose their coverage. In other words, it can
happen to anyone.
But the problem that plagues the health care system is not just a problem for the uninsured. Those who do
have insurance have never had less security and stability than they do today. More and more Americans
worry that if you move, lose your job, or change your job, you'll lose your health insurance too. More and
more Americans pay their premiums, only to discover that their insurance company has dropped their
coverage when they get sick, or won't pay the full cost of care. It happens every day.
One man from Illinois lost his coverage in the middle of chemotherapy because his insurer found that he
hadn't reported gallstones that he didn't even know about. They delayed his treatment, and he died
because of it. Another woman from Texas was about to get a double mastectomy when her insurance
company canceled her policy because she forgot to declare a case of acne. By the time she had her
insurance reinstated, her breast cancer had more than doubled in size. That is heart­breaking, it is wrong,
and no one should be treated that way in the United States of America.
Then there's the problem of rising cost. We spend one and a half times more per person on health care
than any other country, but we aren't any healthier for it. This is one of the reasons that insurance
premiums have gone up three times faster than wages. It's why so many employers ­­ especially small
businesses ­­ are forcing their employees to pay more for insurance, or are dropping their coverage
entirely. It's why so many aspiring entrepreneurs cannot afford to open a business in the first place, and
why American businesses that compete internationally ­­ like our automakers ­­ are at a huge
disadvantage. And it's why those of us with health insurance are also paying a hidden and growing tax for
those without it ­­ about 1,000 dollars per year that pays for somebody else's emergency room and
charitable care.
Finally, our health care system is placing an unsustainable burden on taxpayers. When health care costs
grow at the rate they have, it puts greater pressure on programs like Medicare and Medicaid. If we do
nothing to slow these skyrocketing costs, we will eventually be spending more on Medicare and Medicaid
than every other government program combined. Put simply, our health care problem is our deficit
problem. Nothing else even comes close. Nothing else.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, these are the facts. Nobody disputes them. We know we must reform this system. The question is
how.
There are those on the left who believe that the only way to fix the system is through a single­payer system
like Canada's ­­ where we would severely restrict the private insurance market and have the government
provide coverage for everybody. On the right, there are those who argue that we should end employer­
based systems and leave individuals to buy health insurance on their own.
I have to say that there are arguments to be made for both these approaches. But either one would
represent a radical shift that would disrupt the health care most people currently have. Since health care
represents one­sixth of our economy, I believe it makes more sense to build on what works and fix what
doesn't, rather than try to build an entirely new system from scratch. And that is precisely what those of you
in Congress have tried to do over the past several months.
During that time, we've seen Washington at its best and at its worst.
We've seen many in this chamber work tirelessly for the better part of this year to offer thoughtful ideas
about how to achieve reform. Of the five committees asked to develop bills, four have completed their work,
and the Senate Finance Committee announced today that it will move forward next week. That has never
happened before. Our overall efforts have been supported by an unprecedented coalition of doctors and
nurses; hospitals, seniors' groups, and even drug companies ­­ many of whom opposed reform in the past.
And there is agreement in this chamber on about 80 percent of what needs to be done, putting us closer to
the goal of reform than we have ever been.
But what we've also seen in these last months is the same partisan spectacle that only hardens the disdain
many Americans have towards their own government. Instead of honest debate, we've seen scare tactics.
Some have dug into unyielding ideological camps that offer no hope of compromise. Too many have used
this as an opportunity to score short­term political points, even if it robs the country of our opportunity to
solve a long­term challenge. And out of this blizzard of charges and counter­charges, confusion has
reigned.
Well, the time for bickering is over. The time for games has passed. Now is the season for action. Now is
when we must bring the best ideas of both parties together, and show the American people that we can still
do what we were sent here to do. Now is the time to deliver on health care. Now is the time to deliver on
health care.
The plan I'm announcing tonight would meet three basic goals. It will provide more security and stability to
those who have health insurance. It will provide insurance for those who don't. And it will slow the growth
of health care costs for our families, our businesses, and our government. It's a plan that asks everyone to
take responsibility for meeting this challenge ­­ not just government, not just insurance companies, but
everybody including employers and individuals. And it's a plan that incorporates ideas from senators and
congressmen, from Democrats and Republicans ­­ and yes, from some of my opponents in both the primary
and general election.
Here are the details that every American needs to know about this plan. First, if you are among the
hundreds of millions of Americans who already have health insurance through your job, or Medicare, or
Medicaid, or the VA, nothing in this plan will require you or your employer to change the coverage or the
doctor you have. Let me repeat this: Nothing in our plan requires you to change what you have.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
What this plan will do is make the insurance you have work better for you. Under this plan, it will be against
the law for insurance companies to deny you coverage because of a preexisting condition. As soon as I
sign this bill, it will be against the law for insurance companies to drop your coverage when you get sick or
water it down when you need it the most. They will no longer be able to place some arbitrary cap on the
amount of coverage you can receive in a given year or in a lifetime. We will place a limit on how much you
can be charged for out­of­pocket expenses, because in the United States of America, no one should go
broke because they get sick. And insurance companies will be required to cover, with no extra charge,
routine checkups and preventive care, like mammograms and colonoscopies ­­ because there's no reason
we shouldn't be catching diseases like breast cancer and colon cancer before they get worse. That makes
sense, it saves money, and it saves lives.
Now, that's what Americans who have health insurance can expect from this plan ­­ more security and more
stability.
Now, if you're one of the tens of millions of Americans who don't currently have health insurance, the
second part of this plan will finally offer you quality, affordable choices. If you lose your job or you change
your job, you'll be able to get coverage. If you strike out on your own and start a small business, you'll be
able to get coverage. We'll do this by creating a new insurance exchange ­­ a marketplace where
individuals and small businesses will be able to shop for health insurance at competitive prices. Insurance
companies will have an incentive to participate in this exchange because it lets them compete for millions of
new customers. As one big group, these customers will have greater leverage to bargain with the insurance
companies for better prices and quality coverage. This is how large companies and government employees
get affordable insurance. It's how everyone in this Congress gets affordable insurance. And it's time to give
every American the same opportunity that we give ourselves.
Now, for those individuals and small businesses who still can't afford the lower­priced insurance available in
the exchange, we'll provide tax credits, the size of which will be based on your need. And all insurance
companies that want access to this new marketplace will have to abide by the consumer protections I
already mentioned. This exchange will take effect in four years, which will give us time to do it right. In the
meantime, for those Americans who can't get insurance today because they have preexisting medical
conditions, we will immediately offer low­cost coverage that will protect you against financial ruin if you
become seriously ill. This was a good idea when Senator John McCain proposed it in the campaign, it's a
good idea now, and we should all embrace it.
Now, even if we provide these affordable options, there may be those ­­ especially the young and the
healthy ­­ who still want to take the risk and go without coverage. There may still be companies that refuse
to do right by their workers by giving them coverage. The problem is, such irresponsible behavior costs all
the rest of us money. If there are affordable options and people still don't sign up for health insurance, it
means we pay for these people's expensive emergency room visits. If some businesses don't provide
workers health care, it forces the rest of us to pick up the tab when their workers get sick, and gives those
businesses an unfair advantage over their competitors. And unless everybody does their part, many of the
insurance reforms we seek ­­ especially requiring insurance companies to cover preexisting conditions ­­
just can't be achieved.
And that's why under my plan, individuals will be required to carry basic health insurance ­­ just as most
states require you to carry auto insurance. Likewise, businesses will be required to either offer their workers
health care, or chip in to help cover the cost of their workers. There will be a hardship waiver for those
individuals who still can't afford coverage, and 95 percent of all small businesses, because of their size and
narrow profit margin, would be exempt from these requirements.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
But we can't have large businesses and individuals who can afford coverage game the system by avoiding
responsibility to themselves or their employees. Improving our health care system only works if everybody
does their part.
And while there remain some significant details to be ironed out, I believe a broad consensus exists for the
aspects of the plan I just outlined: consumer protections for those with insurance, an exchange that allows
individuals and small businesses to purchase affordable coverage, and a requirement that people who can
afford insurance get insurance.
And I have no doubt that these reforms would greatly benefit Americans from all walks of life, as well as the
economy as a whole. Still, given all the misinformation that's been spread over the past few months, I
realize that many Americans have grown nervous about reform. So tonight I want to address some of the
key controversies that are still out there.
Some of people's concerns have grown out of bogus claims spread by those whose only agenda is to kill
reform at any cost. The best example is the claim made not just by radio and cable talk show hosts, but by
prominent politicians, that we plan to set up panels of bureaucrats with the power to kill off senior citizens.
Now, such a charge would be laughable if it weren't so cynical and irresponsible. It is a lie, plain and
simple.
There are also those who claim that our reform efforts would insure illegal immigrants. This, too, is false.
The reforms I'm proposing would not apply to those who are here illegally.
Audience Member: You lie!
President Obama: It's not true. And one more misunderstanding I want to clear up ­­ under our plan, no
federal dollars will be used to fund abortions, and federal conscience laws will remain in place.
Now, my health care proposal has also been attacked by some who oppose reform as a "government
takeover" of the entire health care system. As proof, critics point to a provision in our plan that allows the
uninsured and small businesses to choose a publicly sponsored insurance option, administered by the
government just like Medicaid or Medicare.
So let me set the record straight here. My guiding principle is, and always has been, that consumers do
better when there is choice and competition. That's how the market works. Unfortunately, in 34 states, 75
percent of the insurance market is controlled by five or fewer companies. In Alabama, almost 90 percent is
controlled by just one company. And without competition, the price of insurance goes up and quality goes
down. And it makes it easier for insurance companies to treat their customers badly ­­ by cherry­picking the
healthiest individuals and trying to drop the sickest, by overcharging small businesses who have no
leverage, and by jacking up rates.
Insurance executives don't do this because they're bad people; they do it because it's profitable. As one
former insurance executive testified before Congress, insurance companies are not only encouraged to find
reasons to drop the seriously ill, they are rewarded for it. All of this is in service of meeting what this former
executive called "Wall Street's relentless profit expectations."

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, I have no interest in putting insurance companies out of business. They provide a legitimate service,
and employ a lot of our friends and neighbors. I just want to hold them accountable. And the insurance
reforms that I've already mentioned would do just that. But an additional step we can take to keep
insurance companies honest is by making a not­for­profit public option available in the insurance exchange.
Now, let me be clear. Let me be clear. It would only be an option for those who don't have insurance. No
one would be forced to choose it, and it would not impact those of you who already have insurance. In fact,
based on Congressional Budget Office estimates, we believe that less than 5 percent of Americans would
sign up.
Despite all this, the insurance companies and their allies don't like this idea. They argue that these private
companies can't fairly compete with the government. And they'd be right if taxpayers were subsidizing this
public insurance option. But they won't be. I've insisted that like any private insurance company, the public
insurance option would have to be self­sufficient and rely on the premiums it collects. But by avoiding some
of the overhead that gets eaten up at private companies by profits and excessive administrative costs and
executive salaries, it could provide a good deal for consumers, and would also keep pressure on private
insurers to keep their policies affordable and treat their customers better, the same way public colleges and
universities provide additional choice and competition to students without in any way inhibiting a vibrant
system of private colleges and universities.
Now, it's worth noting that a strong majority of Americans still favor a public insurance option of the sort I've
proposed tonight. But its impact shouldn't be exaggerated ­­ by the left or the right or the media. It is only
one part of my plan, and shouldn't be used as a handy excuse for the usual Washington ideological battles.
To my progressive friends, I would remind you that for decades, the driving idea behind reform has been to
end insurance company abuses and make coverage available for those without it. The public option ­­ the
public option is only a means to that end ­­ and we should remain open to other ideas that accomplish our
ultimate goal. And to my Republican friends, I say that rather than making wild claims about a government
takeover of health care, we should work together to address any legitimate concerns you may have.
For example, some have suggested that the public option go into effect only in those markets where
insurance companies are not providing affordable policies. Others have proposed a co­op or another non­
profit entity to administer the plan. These are all constructive ideas worth exploring. But I will not back
down on the basic principle that if Americans can't find affordable coverage, we will provide you with a
choice. And I will make sure that no government bureaucrat or insurance company bureaucrat gets
between you and the care that you need.
Finally, let me discuss an issue that is a great concern to me, to members of this chamber, and to the public
­­ and that's how we pay for this plan.
And here's what you need to know. First, I will not sign a plan that adds one dime to our deficits ­­ either
now or in the future. I will not sign it if it adds one dime to the deficit, now or in the future, period. And to
prove that I'm serious, there will be a provision in this plan that requires us to come forward with more
spending cuts if the savings we promised don't materialize. Now, part of the reason I faced a trillion­dollar
deficit when I walked in the door of the White House is because too many initiatives over the last decade
were not paid for ­­ from the Iraq war to tax breaks for the wealthy. I will not make that same mistake with
health care.
Second, we've estimated that most of this plan can be paid for by finding savings within the existing health
care system, a system that is currently full of waste and abuse. Right now, too much of the hard­earned

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
savings and tax dollars we spend on health care don't make us any healthier. That's not my judgment; it's
the judgment of medical professionals across this country. And this is also true when it comes to Medicare
and Medicaid.
In fact, I want to speak directly to seniors for a moment, because Medicare is another issue that's been
subjected to demagoguery and distortion during the course of this debate.
More than four decades ago, this nation stood up for the principle that after a lifetime of hard work, our
seniors should not be left to struggle with a pile of medical bills in their later years. That's how Medicare
was born. And it remains a sacred trust that must be passed down from one generation to the next. And
that is why not a dollar of the Medicare trust fund will be used to pay for this plan.
The only thing this plan would eliminate is the hundreds of billions of dollars in waste and fraud, as well as
unwarranted subsidies in Medicare that go to insurance companies ­­ subsidies that do everything to pad
their profits but don't improve the care of seniors. And we will also create an independent commission of
doctors and medical experts charged with identifying more waste in the years ahead.
Now, these steps will ensure that you ­­ America's seniors ­­ get the benefits you've been promised. They
will ensure that Medicare is there for future generations. And we can use some of the savings to fill the gap
in coverage that forces too many seniors to pay thousands of dollars a year out of their own pockets for
prescription drugs. That's what this plan will do for you. So don't pay attention to those scary stories about
how your benefits will be cut, especially since some of the same folks who are spreading these tall tales
have fought against Medicare in the past and just this year supported a budget that would essentially have
turned Medicare into a privatized voucher program. That will not happen on my watch. I will protect
Medicare.
Now, because Medicare is such a big part of the health care system, making the program more efficient can
help usher in changes in the way we deliver health care that can reduce costs for everybody. We have long
known that some places ­­ like the Intermountain Healthcare in Utah or the Geisinger Health System in rural
Pennsylvania ­­ offer high­quality care at costs below average. So the commission can help encourage the
adoption of these common­sense best practices by doctors and medical professionals throughout the
system ­­ everything from reducing hospital infection rates to encouraging better coordination between
teams of doctors.
Reducing the waste and inefficiency in Medicare and Medicaid will pay for most of this plan. Now, much of
the rest would be paid for with revenues from the very same drug and insurance companies that stand to
benefit from tens of millions of new customers. And this reform will charge insurance companies a fee for
their most expensive policies, which will encourage them to provide greater value for the money ­­ an idea
which has the support of Democratic and Republican experts. And according to these same experts, this
modest change could help hold down the cost of health care for all of us in the long run.
Now, finally, many in this chamber ­­ particularly on the Republican side of the aisle ­­ have long insisted
that reforming our medical malpractice laws can help bring down the cost of health care. Now ­­ there you
go. There you go. Now, I don't believe malpractice reform is a silver bullet, but I've talked to enough
doctors to know that defensive medicine may be contributing to unnecessary costs. So I'm proposing that
we move forward on a range of ideas about how to put patient safety first and let doctors focus on practicing
medicine.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
I know that the Bush administration considered authorizing demonstration projects in individual states to test
these ideas. I think it's a good idea, and I'm directing my Secretary of Health and Human Services to move
forward on this initiative today.
Now, add it all up, and the plan I'm proposing will cost around 900 billion dollars over 10 years ­­ less than
we have spent on the Iraq and Afghanistan wars, and less than the tax cuts for the wealthiest few
Americans that Congress passed at the beginning of the previous administration. Now, most of these costs
will be paid for with money already being spent ­­ but spent badly ­­ in the existing health care system. The
plan will not add to our deficit. The middle class will realize greater security, not higher taxes. And if we are
able to slow the growth of health care costs by just one­tenth of one percent each year ­­ one­tenth of one
percent ­­ it will actually reduce the deficit by 4 trillion dollars over the long term.
Now, this is the plan I'm proposing. It's a plan that incorporates ideas from many of the people in this room
tonight ­­ Democrats and Republicans. And I will continue to seek common ground in the weeks ahead. If
you come to me with a serious set of proposals, I will be there to listen. My door is always open.
But know this: I will not waste time with those who have made the calculation that it's better politics to kill
this plan than to improve it. I won't stand by while the special interests use the same old tactics to keep
things exactly the way they are. If you misrepresent what's in this plan, we will call you out. And I will not
accept the status quo as a solution. Not this time. Not now.
Everyone in this room knows what will happen if we do nothing. Our deficit will grow. More families will go
bankrupt. More businesses will close. More Americans will lose their coverage when they are sick and
need it the most. And more will die as a result. We know these things to be true.
That is why we cannot fail. Because there are too many Americans counting on us to succeed ­­ the ones
who suffer silently, and the ones who shared their stories with us at town halls, in e­mails, and in letters.
I received one of those letters a few days ago. It was from our beloved friend and colleague, Ted Kennedy.
He had written it back in May, shortly after he was told that his illness was terminal. He asked that it be
delivered upon his death.
In it, he spoke about what a happy time his last months were, thanks to the love and support of family and
friends, his wife, Vicki, his amazing children, who are all here tonight. And he expressed confidence that
this would be the year that health care reform ­­ "that great unfinished business of our society," he called it ­­
would finally pass. He repeated the truth that health care is decisive for our future prosperity, but he also
reminded me that "it concerns more than material things." "What we face," he wrote, "is above all a moral
issue; at stake are not just the details of policy, but fundamental principles of social justice and the character
of our country."
I've thought about that phrase quite a bit in recent days ­­ the character of our country. One of the unique
and wonderful things about America has always been our self­reliance, our rugged individualism, our fierce
defense of freedom and our healthy skepticism of government. And figuring out the appropriate size and
role of government has always been a source of rigorous and, yes, sometimes angry debate. That's our
history.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
For some of Ted Kennedy's critics, his brand of liberalism represented an affront to American liberty. In
their minds, his passion for universal health care was nothing more than a passion for big government.
But those of us who knew Teddy and worked with him here ­­ people of both parties ­­ know that what drove
him was something more. His friend Orrin Hatch ­­ he knows that. They worked together to provide
children with health insurance. His friend John McCain knows that. They worked together on a Patient's Bill
of Rights. His friend Chuck Grassley knows that. They worked together to provide health care to children
with disabilities.
On issues like these, Ted Kennedy's passion was born not of some rigid ideology, but of his own
experience. It was the experience of having two children stricken with cancer. He never forgot the sheer
terror and helplessness that any parent feels when a child is badly sick. And he was able to imagine what it
must be like for those without insurance, what it would be like to have to say to a wife or a child or an aging
parent, there is something that could make you better, but I just can't afford it.
That large­heartedness, that concern and regard for the plight of others ­­ is not a partisan feeling. It's not a
Republican or a Democratic feeling. It, too, is part of the American character ­­ our ability to stand in other
people's shoes; a recognition that we are all in this together, and when fortune turns against one of us,
others are there to lend a helping hand; a belief that in this country, hard work and responsibility should be
rewarded by some measure of security and fair play; and an acknowledgment that sometimes government
has to step in to help deliver on that promise.
This has always been the history of our progress. In 1935, when over half of our seniors could not support
themselves and millions had seen their savings wiped away, there were those who argued that Social
Security would lead to socialism, but the men and women of Congress stood fast, and we are all the better
for it. In 1965, when some argued that Medicare represented a government takeover of health care,
members of Congress ­­ Democrats and Republicans ­­ did not back down. They joined together so that all
of us could enter our golden years with some basic peace of mind.
You see, our predecessors understood that government could not, and should not, solve every problem.
They understood that there are instances when the gains in security from government action are not worth
the added constraints on our freedom. But they also understood that the danger of too much government is
matched by the perils of too little; that without the leavening hand of wise policy, markets can crash,
monopolies can stifle competition, the vulnerable can be exploited. And they knew that when any
government measure, no matter how carefully crafted or beneficial, is subject to scorn; when any efforts to
help people in need are attacked as un­American; when facts and reason are thrown overboard and only
timidity passes for wisdom, and we can no longer even engage in a civil conversation with each other over
the things that truly matter ­­ that at that point we don't merely lose our capacity to solve big challenges. We
lose something essential about ourselves.
That was true then. It remains true today. I understand how difficult this health care debate has been. I
know that many in this country are deeply skeptical that government is looking out for them. I understand
that the politically safe move would be to kick the can further down the road ­­ to defer reform one more
year, or one more election, or one more term.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
But that is not what the moment calls for. That's not what we came here to do. We did not come to fear the
future. We came here to shape it. I still believe we can act even when it's hard. I still believe ­­ I still
believe that we can act when it's hard. I still believe we can replace acrimony with civility, and gridlock with
progress. I still believe we can do great things, and that here and now we will meet history's test.
Because that's who we are. That is our calling. That is our character. Thank you, God bless you, and may
God bless the United States of America.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com. © Copyright 2009. All rights reserved. Page 10
</doc>
<doc id="file32329876" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Tucson_Memorial_Address.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Tucson%20Memorial%20Address.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
'Together We Thrive: Tucson and America' Memorial
delivered 12 January 2011, McKale Memorial Center, University of Arizona, Tucson

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you. Please be seated.
To the families of those we’ve lost; to all who called them friends; to the students of this
university, the public servants who are gathered here, the people of Tucson and the people of
Arizona: I have come here tonight as an American who, like all Americans, kneels to pray with
you today and will stand by you tomorrow.
There is nothing I can say that will fill the sudden hole torn in your hearts. But know this: The
hopes of a nation are here tonight. We mourn with you for the fallen. We join you in your
grief. And we add our faith to yours that Representative Gabrielle Giffords and the other
living victims of this tragedy will pull through.
Scripture tells us:
There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God,
the holy place where the Most High dwells.
God is within her, she will not fall;
God will help her at break of day.1

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
On Saturday morning, Gabby, her staff and many of her constituents gathered outside a
supermarket to exercise their right to peaceful assembly and free speech. They were fulfilling
a central tenet of the democracy envisioned by our founders -- representatives of the people
answering questions to their constituents, so as to carry their concerns back to our nation’s
capital. Gabby called it “Congress on Your Corner” -- just an updated version of government
of and by and for the people.
And that quintessentially American scene, that was the scene that was shattered by a
gunman’s bullets. And the six people who lost their lives on Saturday -- they, too,
represented what is best in us, what is best in America.
Judge John Roll served our legal system for nearly 40 years. A graduate of this university and
a graduate of this law school -- Judge Roll was recommended for the federal bench by John
McCain 20 years ago -- appointed by President George H.W. Bush and rose to become
Arizona’s chief federal judge.
His colleagues described him as the hardest-working judge within the Ninth Circuit. He was
on his way back from attending Mass, as he did every day, when he decided to stop by and
say hi to his representative. John is survived by his loving wife, Maureen, his three sons and
his five beautiful grandchildren.
George and Dorothy Morris -- “Dot” to her friends -- were high school sweethearts who got
married and had two daughters. They did everything together -- traveling the open road in
their RV, enjoying what their friends called a 50-year honeymoon. Saturday morning, they
went by the Safeway to hear what their congresswoman had to say. When gunfire rang out,
George, a former Marine, instinctively tried to shield his wife. Both were shot. Dot passed
away.
A New Jersey native, Phyllis Schneck retired to Tucson to beat the snow. But in the summer,
she would return East, where her world revolved around her three children, her seven
grandchildren and 2-year-old great-granddaughter. A gifted quilter, she’d often work under a
favorite tree, or sometimes she'd sew aprons with the logos of the Jets and the Giants -- to
give out at the church where she volunteered. A Republican, she took a liking to Gabby, and
wanted to get to know her better.
Dorwan and Mavy Stoddard grew up in Tucson together -- about 70 years ago. They moved
apart and started their own respective families. But after both were widowed they found their
way back here, to, as one of Mavy’s daughters put it, “be boyfriend and girlfriend again.”

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
When they weren’t out on the road in their motor home, you could find them just up the road,
helping folks in need at the Mountain Avenue Church of Christ. A retired construction worker,
Dorwan spent his spare time fixing up the church along with his dog, Tux. His final act of
selflessness was to dive on top of his wife, sacrificing his life for hers.
Everything Gabe Zimmerman did, he did with passion. But his true passion was helping
people. As Gabby’s outreach director, he made the cares of thousands of her constituents his
own, seeing to it that seniors got the Medicare benefits that they had earned, that veterans
got the medals and the care that they deserved, that government was working for ordinary
folks. He died doing what he loved -- talking with people and seeing how he could help. And
Gabe is survived by his parents, Ross and Emily, his brother, Ben, and his fiancée, Kelly, who
he planned to marry next year.
And then there is nine-year-old Christina Taylor Green. Christina was an A student; she was a
dancer; she was a gymnast; she was a swimmer. She decided that she wanted to be the first
woman to play in the Major Leagues, and as the only girl on her Little League team, no one
put it past her.
She showed an appreciation for life uncommon for a girl her age. She’d remind her mother,
“We are so blessed. We have the best life.” And she’d pay those blessings back by
participating in a charity that helped children who were less fortunate.
Our hearts are broken by their sudden passing. Our hearts are broken -- and yet, our hearts
also have reason for fullness. Our hearts are full of hope and thanks for the 13 Americans who
survived the shooting, including the congresswoman many of them went to see on Saturday.
I have just come from the University Medical Center, just a mile from here, where our friend
Gabby courageously fights to recover even as we speak. And I want to tell you -- her
husband Mark is here and he allows me to share this with you -- right after we went to visit, a
few minutes after we left her room and some of her colleagues in Congress were in the room,
Gabby opened her eyes for the first time. Gabby opened her eyes for the first time.
Gabby opened her eyes. Gabby opened her eyes, so I can tell you she knows we are here.
She knows we love her. And she knows that we are rooting for her through what is
undoubtedly going to be a difficult journey. We are there for her.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Our hearts are full of thanks for that good news, and our hearts are full of gratitude for those
who saved others. We are grateful to Daniel Hernandez -- a volunteer in Gabby’s office. And,
Daniel, I’m sorry, you may deny it, but we’ve decided you are a hero because you ran through
the chaos to minister to your boss, and tended to her wounds and helped keep her alive.
We are grateful to the men who tackled the gunman as he stopped to reload. Right over
there. We are grateful for petite Patricia Maisch, who wrestled away the killer’s ammunition,
and undoubtedly saved some lives. And we are grateful for the doctors and nurses and first
responders who worked wonders to heal those who’d been hurt. We are grateful to them.
These men and women remind us that heroism is found not only on the fields of battle. They
remind us that heroism does not require special training or physical strength. Heroism is
here, in the hearts of so many of our fellow citizens, all around us, just waiting to be
summoned -- as it was on Saturday morning. Their actions, their selflessness poses a
challenge to each of us. It raises a question of what, beyond prayers and expressions of
concern, is required of us going forward. How can we honor the fallen? How can we be true
to their memory?
You see, when a tragedy like this strikes, it is part of our nature to demand explanations -- to
try and pose some order on the chaos and make sense out of that which seems senseless.
Already we’ve seen a national conversation commence, not only about the motivations behind
these killings, but about everything from the merits of gun safety laws to the adequacy of our
mental health system. And much of this process, of debating what might be done to prevent
such tragedies in the future, is an essential ingredient in our exercise of self-government.
But at a time when our discourse has become so sharply polarized -- at a time when we are
far too eager to lay the blame for all that ails the world at the feet of those who happen to
think differently than we do -- it’s important for us to pause for a moment and make sure that
we’re talking with each other in a way that heals, not in a way that wounds.
Scripture tells us that there is evil in the world, and that terrible things happen for reasons
that defy human understanding. In the words of Job, “When I looked for light, then came
darkness.” Bad things happen, and we have to guard against simple explanations in the
aftermath.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
For the truth is none of us can know exactly what triggered this vicious attack. None of us
can know with any certainty what might have stopped these shots from being fired, or what
thoughts lurked in the inner recesses of a violent man’s mind. Yes, we have to examine all
the facts behind this tragedy. We cannot and will not be passive in the face of such violence.
We should be willing to challenge old assumptions in order to lessen the prospects of such
violence in the future. But what we cannot do is use this tragedy as one more occasion to turn
on each other. That we cannot do. That we cannot do.
As we discuss these issues, let each of us do so with a good dose of humility. Rather than
pointing fingers or assigning blame, let’s use this occasion to expand our moral imaginations,
to listen to each other more carefully, to sharpen our instincts for empathy and remind
ourselves of all the ways that our hopes and dreams are bound together.
After all, that’s what most of us do when we lose somebody in our family -- especially if the
loss is unexpected. We’re shaken out of our routines. We’re forced to look inward. We
reflect on the past: Did we spend enough time with an aging parent, we wonder. Did we
express our gratitude for all the sacrifices that they made for us? Did we tell a spouse just
how desperately we loved them, not just once in a while but every single day?
So sudden loss causes us to look backward. But it also forces us to look forward; to reflect on
the present and the future, on the manner in which we live our lives and nurture our
relationships with those who are still with us.
We may ask ourselves if we’ve shown enough kindness and generosity and compassion to the
people in our lives. Perhaps we question whether we're doing right by our children, or our
community, whether our priorities are in order.
We recognize our own mortality, and we are reminded that in the fleeting time we have on
this Earth, what matters is not wealth, or status, or power, or fame -- but rather, how well we
have loved -- and what small part we have played in making the lives of other people better.
And that process -- that process of reflection, of making sure we align our values with our
actions -- I believe, is what a tragedy like this requires.
For those who were harmed, those who were killed -- they are part of our family, an American
family 300 million strong. We may not have known them personally, but surely we see
ourselves in them. In George and Dot, in Dorwan and Mavy, we sense the abiding love we
have for our own husbands, our own wives, our own life partners. Phyllis -- she’s our mom or

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
our grandma; Gabe our brother or son. In Judge Roll, we recognize not only a man who prized
his family and doing his job well, but also a man who embodied America’s fidelity to the law.
And in Gabby, we see a reflection of our public-spiritedness; that desire to participate in that
sometimes frustrating, sometimes contentious, but always necessary and never-ending
process to form a more perfect union. And in Christina we see all of our children. So curious,
so trusting, so energetic, so full of magic. So deserving of our love. And so deserving of our
good example.
If this tragedy prompts reflection and debate -- as it should -- let’s make sure it’s worthy of
those we have lost. Let’s make sure it’s not on the usual plane of politics and point-scoring
and pettiness that drifts away in the next news cycle.
The loss of these wonderful people should make every one of us strive to be better. To be
better in our private lives, to be better friends and neighbors and coworkers and parents. And
if, as has been discussed in recent days, their death helps usher in more civility in our public
discourse, let us remember it is not because a simple lack of civility caused this tragedy -- it
did not -- but rather because only a more civil and honest public discourse can help us face up
to the challenges of our nation in a way that would make them proud.
We should be civil because we want to live up to the example of public servants like John Roll
and Gabby Giffords, who knew first and foremost that we are all Americans, and that we can
question each other’s ideas without questioning each other’s love of country and that our task,
working together, is to constantly widen the circle of our concern so that we bequeath the
American Dream to future generations.
They believed, and I believe that we can be better. Those who died here, those who saved
life here -- they help me believe. We may not be able to stop all evil in the world, but I know
that how we treat one another, that’s entirely up to us. And I believe that for all our
imperfections, we are full of decency and goodness, and that the forces that divide us are not
as strong as those that unite us. That’s what I believe, in part because that’s what a child like
Christina Taylor Green believed.
Imagine for a moment, here was a young girl who was just becoming aware of our
democracy; just beginning to understand the obligations of citizenship; just starting to
glimpse the fact that some day she, too, might play a part in shaping her nation’s future. She
had been elected to her student council. She saw public service as something exciting and
hopeful. She was off to meet her congresswoman, someone she was sure was good and

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
important and might be a role model. She saw all this through the eyes of a child, undimmed
by the cynicism or vitriol that we adults all too often just take for granted.
I want to live up to her expectations. I want our democracy to be as good as Christina
imagined it. I want America to be as good as she imagined it. All of us -- we should do
everything we can to make sure this country lives up to our children’s expectations.
As has already been mentioned, Christina was given to us on September 11th, 2001, one of
50 babies born that day to be pictured in a book called “Faces of Hope.” On either side of her
photo in that book were simple wishes for a child’s life. “I hope you help those in need,” read
one. “I hope you know all the words to the National Anthem and sing it with your hand over
your heart." "I hope you jump in rain puddles.”
If there are rain puddles in Heaven, Christina is jumping in them today. And here on this
Earth, we place our hands over our hearts, and we commit ourselves as Americans to forging
a country that is forever worthy of her gentle, happy spirit.
May God bless and keep those we’ve lost in restful and eternal peace.
May He love and watch over the survivors.
And may He bless the United States of America.

1

Psalms 46:4-5

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329644" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Turkish_Parliament.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Turkish%20Parliament.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the Turkish Parliament

Delivered 6 April 2009, Ankara, Turkey

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. Speaker, Madam Deputy Speaker, distinguished members, I am honored to speak in this chamber, and
I am committed to renewing the alliance between our nations and the friendship between our people.
This is my first trip overseas as President of the United States. I've been to the G20 summit in London, and
the NATO summit in Strasbourg, and the European Union summit in Prague. Some people have asked me
if I chose to continue my travels to Ankara and Istanbul to send a message to the world. And my answer is
simple: Evet -- yes. Turkey is a critical ally. Turkey is an important part of Europe. And Turkey and the
United States must stand together -- and work together -- to overcome the challenges of our time.
This morning I had the great privilege of visiting the tomb of your extraordinary founder of your republic. And
I was deeply impressed by this beautiful memorial to a man who did so much to shape the course of history.
But it is also clear that the greatest monument to Ataturk's life is not something that can be cast in stone and
marble. His greatest legacy is Turkey's strong, vibrant, secular democracy, and that is the work that this
assembly carries on today.
This future was not easily assured, it was not guaranteed. At the end of World War I, Turkey could have
succumbed to the foreign powers that were trying to claim its territory, or sought to restore an ancient
empire. But Turkey chose a different future. You freed yourself from foreign control, and you founded a
republic that commands the respect of the United States and the wider world.
And there is a simple truth to this story: Turkey's democracy is your own achievement. It was not forced
upon you by any outside power, nor did it come without struggle and sacrifice. Turkey draws strength from
both the successes of the past, and from the efforts of each generation of Turks that makes new progress
for your people.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, my country's democracy has its own story. The general who led America in revolution and governed
as our first President was, as many of you know, George Washington. And like you, we built a grand
monument to honor our founding father -- a towering obelisk that stands in the heart of the capital city that
bears Washington's name. I can see the Washington Monument from the window of the White House every
day.
It took decades to build. There were frequent delays. Over time, more and more people contributed to help
make this monument the inspiring structure that still stands tall today. Among those who came to our aid
were friends from all across the world who offered their own tributes to Washington and the country he
helped to found.
And one of those tributes came from Istanbul. Ottoman Sultan Abdulmecid sent a marble plaque that helped
to build the Washington Monument. Inscribed in the plaque was a poem that began with a few simple words:
"So as to strengthen the friendship between the two countries." Over 150 years have passed since those
words were carved into marble. Our nations have changed in many ways. But our friendship is strong, and
our alliance endures.
It is a friendship that flourished in the years after World War II, when President Truman committed our
nation to the defense of Turkey's freedom and sovereignty, and Turkey committed itself into the NATO
Alliance. Turkish troops have served by our side from Korea to Kosovo to Kabul. Together, we withstood the
great test of the Cold War. Trade between our nations has steadily advanced. So has cooperation in
science and research.
The ties among our people have deepened, as well, and more and more Americans of Turkish origin live
and work and succeed within our borders. And as a basketball fan, I've even noticed that Hedo Turkoglu
and Mehmet Okur have got some pretty good basketball games.
The United States and Turkey have not always agreed on every issue, and that's to be expected -- no two
nations do. But we have stood together through many challenges over the last 60 years. And because of the
strength of our alliance and the endurance of our friendship, both America and Turkey are stronger and the
world is more secure.
Now, our two democracies are confronted by an unprecedented set of challenges: An economic crisis that
recognizes no borders; extremism that leads to the killing of innocent men and women and children; strains
on our energy supply and a changing climate; the proliferation of the world's deadliest weapons; and the
persistence of tragic conflict.
These are the great tests of our young century. And the choices that we make in the coming years will
determine whether the future will be shaped by fear or by freedom; by poverty or by prosperity; by strife or
by a just, secure and lasting peace.
This much is certain: No one nation can confront these challenges alone, and all nations have a stake in
overcoming them. That is why we must listen to one another, and seek common ground. That is why we
must build on our mutual interests, and rise above our differences. We are stronger when we act together.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
That is the message that I've carried with me throughout this trip to Europe. That is the message that I
delivered when I had the privilege of meeting with your President and with your Prime Minister. That will be
the approach of the United States of America going forward.
Already, America and Turkey are working with the G20 on an unprecedented response to an unprecedented
economic crisis. Now, this past week, we came together to ensure that the world's largest economies take
strong and coordinated action to stimulate growth and restore the flow of credit; to reject the pressures of
protectionism, and to extend a hand to developing countries and the people hit hardest by this downturn;
and to dramatically reform our regulatory system so that the world never faces a crisis like this again.
As we go forward, the United States and Turkey can pursue many opportunities to serve prosperity for our
people. The President and I this morning talked about expanding the ties of commerce and trade. There's
enormous opportunity when it comes to energy to create jobs. And we can increase new sources to not only
free ourselves from dependence of other energies -- other countries' energy sources, but also to combat
climate change. We should build on our Clean Technology Fund to leverage efficiency and renewable
energy investments in Turkey. And to power markets in Turkey and Europe, the United States will continue
to support your central role as an East-West corridor for oil and natural gas.
This economic cooperation only reinforces the common security that Europe and the United States share
with Turkey as a NATO ally, and the common values that we share as democracies. So in meeting the
challenges of the 21st century, we must seek the strength of a Europe that is truly united, peaceful and free.
So let me be clear: The United States strongly supports Turkey's bid to become a member of the European
Union. We speak not as members of the EU, but as close friends of both Turkey and Europe. Turkey has
been a resolute ally and a responsible partner in transatlantic and European institutions. Turkey is bound to
Europe by more than the bridges over the Bosphorous. Centuries of shared history, culture, and commerce
bring you together. Europe gains by the diversity of ethnicity, tradition and faith -- it is not diminished by it.
And Turkish membership would broaden and strengthen Europe's foundation once more.
Now, of course, Turkey has its own responsibilities. And you've made important progress towards
membership. But I also know that Turkey has pursued difficult political reforms not simply because it's good
for EU membership, but because it's right for Turkey.
In the last several years, you've abolished state security courts, you've expanded the right to counsel.
You've reformed the penal code and strengthened laws that govern the freedom of the press and assembly.
You've lifted bans on teaching and broadcasting Kurdish, and the world noted with respect the important
signal sent through a new state Kurdish television station.
These achievements have created new laws that must be implemented, and a momentum that should be
sustained. For democracies cannot be static -- they must move forward. Freedom of religion and expression
lead to a strong and vibrant civil society that only strengthens the state, which is why steps like reopening
Halki Seminary will send such an important signal inside Turkey and beyond. An enduring commitment to
the rule of law is the only way to achieve the security that comes from justice for all people. Robust minority
rights let societies benefit from the full measure of contributions from all citizens.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
I say this as the President of a country that not very long ago made it hard for somebody who looks like me
to vote, much less be President of the United States. But it is precisely that capacity to change that enriches
our countries. Every challenge that we face is more easily met if we tend to our own democratic foundation.
This work is never over. That's why, in the United States, we recently ordered the prison at Guantanamo
Bay closed. That's why we prohibited -- without exception or equivocation -- the use of torture. All of us have
to change. And sometimes change is hard.
Another issue that confronts all democracies as they move to the future is how we deal with the past. The
United States is still working through some of our own darker periods in our history. Facing the Washington
Monument that I spoke of is a memorial of Abraham Lincoln, the man who freed those who were enslaved
even after Washington led our Revolution. Our country still struggles with the legacies of slavery and
segregation, the past treatment of Native Americans.
Human endeavor is by its nature imperfect. History is often tragic, but unresolved, it can be a heavy weight.
Each country must work through its past. And reckoning with the past can help us seize a better future. I
know there's strong views in this chamber about the terrible events of 1915. And while there's been a good
deal of commentary about my views, it's really about how the Turkish and Armenian people deal with the
past. And the best way forward for the Turkish and Armenian people is a process that works through the
past in a way that is honest, open and constructive.
We've already seen historic and courageous steps taken by Turkish and Armenian leaders. These contacts
hold out the promise of a new day. An open border would return the Turkish and Armenian people to a
peaceful and prosperous coexistence that would serve both of your nations. So I want you to know that the
United States strongly supports the full normalization of relations between Turkey and Armenia. It is a cause
worth working towards.
It speaks to Turkey's leadership that you are poised to be the only country in the region to have normal and
peaceful relations with all the South Caucasus nations. And to advance that peace, you can play a
constructive role in helping to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict, which has continued for far too long.
Advancing peace also includes the disputes that persist in the Eastern Mediterranean. And here there's a
cause for hope. The two Cypriot leaders have an opportunity through their commitment to negotiations
under the United Nations Good Offices Mission. The United States is willing to offer all the help sought by
the parties as they work towards a just and lasting settlement that reunifies Cyprus into a bizonal and
bicommunal federation.
These efforts speak to one part of the critical region that surrounds Turkey. And when we consider the
challenges before us, on issue after issue, we share common goals. In the Middle East, we share the goal
of a lasting peace between Israel and its neighbors. Let me be clear: The United States strongly supports
the goal of two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and security. That is a goal shared
by Palestinians, Israelis, and people of goodwill around the world. That is a goal that the parties agreed to in
the road map and at Annapolis. That is a goal that I will actively pursue as President of the United States.
We know the road ahead will be difficult. Both Israelis and Palestinians must take steps that are necessary
to build confidence and trust.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Both Israelis and Palestinians, both must live up to the commitments they have made. Both must overcome
longstanding passions and the politics of the moment to make progress towards a secure and lasting peace.
The United States and Turkey can help the Palestinians and Israelis make this journey. Like the United
States, Turkey has been a friend and partner in Israel's quest for security. And like the United States, you
seek a future of opportunity and statehood for the Palestinians. So now, working together, we must not give
into pessimism and mistrust. We must pursue every opportunity for progress, as you've done by supporting
negotiations between Syria and Israel. We must extend a hand to those Palestinians who are in need, while
helping them strengthen their own institutions. We must reject the use of terror, and recognize that Israel's
security concerns are legitimate.
The peace of the region will also be advanced if Iran forgoes any nuclear weapons ambitions. Now, as I
made clear in Prague yesterday, no one is served by the spread of nuclear weapons, least of all Turkey.
You live in a difficult region and a nuclear arm race would not serve the security of this nation well. This part
of the world has known enough violence. It has known enough hatred. It does not need a race for an evermore powerful tool of destruction.
Now, I have made it clear to the people and leaders of the Islamic Republic of Iran that the United States
seeks engagement based on mutual interest and mutual respect. We want Iran to play its rightful role in the
community of nations. Iran is a great civilization. We want them to engage in the economic and political
integration that brings prosperity and security. But Iran's leaders must choose whether they will try to build a
weapon or build a better future for their people.
So both Turkey and the United States support a secure and united Iraq that does not serve as a safe haven
for terrorists. I know there were differences about whether to go to war. There were differences within my
own country, as well. But now we must come together as we end this war responsibly, because the future of
Iraq is inseparable from the future of the broader region. As I've already announced, and many of you are
aware, the United States will remove our combat brigades by the end of next August, while working with the
Iraqi government as they take responsibility for security. And we will work with Iraq, Turkey, and all Iraq's
neighbors, to forge a new dialogue that reconciles differences and advances our common security.
Make no mistake, though: Iraq, Turkey, and the United States face a common threat from terrorism. That
includes the al Qaeda terrorists who have sought to drive Iraqis apart and destroy their country. That
includes the PKK. There is no excuse for terror against any nation. As President, and as a NATO ally, I
pledge that you will have our support against the terrorist activities of the PKK or anyone else. These efforts
will be strengthened by the continued work to build ties of cooperation between Turkey, the Iraqi
government, and Iraq's Kurdish leaders, and by your continued efforts to promote education and opportunity
and democracy for the Kurdish population here inside Turkey.
Finally, we share the common goal of denying al Qaeda a safe haven in Pakistan or Afghanistan. The world
has come too far to let this region backslide, and to let al Qaeda terrorists plot further attacks. That's why we
are committed to a more focused effort to disrupt, dismantle, and defeat al Qaeda. That is why we are
increasing our efforts to train Afghans to sustain their own security, and to reconcile former adversaries.
That's why we are increasing our support for the people of Afghanistan and Pakistan, so that we stand on
the side not only of security, but also of opportunity and the promise of a better life.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
Turkey has been a true partner. Your troops were among the first in the International Security Assistance
Force. You have sacrificed much in this endeavor. Now we must achieve our goals together. I appreciate
that you've offered to help us train and support Afghan security forces, and expand opportunity across the
region. Together, we can rise to meet this challenge like we have so many before.
I know there have been difficulties these last few years. I know that the trust that binds the United States
and Turkey has been strained, and I know that strain is shared in many places where the Muslim faith is
practiced. So let me say this as clearly as I can: The United States is not, and will never be, at war with
Islam. In fact, our partnership with the Muslim world is critical not just in rolling back the violent ideologies
that people of all faiths reject, but also to strengthen opportunity for all its people.
I also want to be clear that America's relationship with the Muslim community, the Muslim world, cannot, and
will not, just be based upon opposition to terrorism. We seek broader engagement based on mutual interest
and mutual respect. We will listen carefully, we will bridge misunderstandings, and we will seek common
ground. We will be respectful, even when we do not agree. We will convey our deep appreciation for the
Islamic faith, which has done so much over the centuries to shape the world -- including in my own country.
The United States has been enriched by Muslim Americans. Many other Americans have Muslims in their
families or have lived in a Muslim-majority country. I know, because I am one of them.
Above all, above all we will demonstrate through actions our commitment to a better future. I want to help
more children get the education that they need to succeed. We want to promote health care in places where
people are vulnerable. We want to expand the trade and investment that can bring prosperity for all people.
In the months ahead, I will present specific programs to advance these goals. Our focus will be on what we
can do, in partnership with people across the Muslim world, to advance our common hopes and our
common dreams. And when people look back on this time, let it be said of America that we extended the
hand of friendship to all people.
There's an old Turkish proverb: "You cannot put out fire with flames." America knows this. Turkey knows
this. There's some who must be met by force, they will not compromise. But force alone cannot solve our
problems, and it is no alternative to extremism. The future must belong to those who create, not those who
destroy. That is the future we must work for, and we must work for it together.
I know there are those who like to debate Turkey's future. They see your country at the crossroads of
continents, and touched by the currents of history. They know that this has been a place where civilizations
meet, and different peoples come together. They wonder whether you will be pulled in one direction or
another.
But I believe here is what they don't understand: Turkey's greatness lies in your ability to be at the center of
things. This is not where East and West divide -- this is where they come together. In the beauty of your
culture. In the richness of your history. In the strength of your democracy. In your hopes for tomorrow. I am
honored to stand here with you -- to look forward to the future that we must reach for together -- and to
reaffirm America's commitment to our strong and enduring friendship.
Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.

Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 6
</doc>
<doc id="file32329733" filename="Barack_Obama_-_UN_Copenhagen_Climate_Change.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20UN%20Copenhagen%20Climate%20Change.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Speech at the UN Copenhagen Climate Change Conference
Delivered 18 December 2009, Copenhagen, Denmark

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning. It is an honor for me to join this distinguished group of leaders from nations
around the world. We come here in Copenhagen because climate change poses a grave and
growing danger to our people. All of you would not be here unless you -- like me -- were
convinced that this danger is real. This is not fiction, it is science. Unchecked, climate change
will pose unacceptable risks to our security, our economies, and our planet. This much we
know.
The question, then, before us is no longer the nature of the challenge. The question is our
capacity to meet it. For while the reality of climate change is not in doubt, I have to be
honest, as the world watches us today, I think our ability to take collective action is in doubt
right now, and it hangs in the balance.
I believe we can act boldly, and decisively, in the face of a common threat. That's why I come
here today -- not to talk, but to act.
Now, as the world's largest economy and as the world's second largest emitter, America bears
our responsibility to address climate change, and we intend to meet that responsibility. That's
why we've renewed our leadership within international climate change negotiations. That's
why we've worked with other nations to phase out fossil fuel subsidies.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
That's why we've taken bold action at home -- by making historic investments in renewable
energy; by putting our people to work increasing efficiency in our homes and buildings; and
by pursuing comprehensive legislation to transform to a clean energy economy.
These mitigation actions are ambitious, and we are taking them not simply to meet global
responsibilities. We are convinced, as some of you may be convinced, that changing the way
we produce and use energy is essential to America's economic future -- that it will create
millions of new jobs, power new industries, keep us competitive, and spark new innovation.
We're convinced, for our own self-interest, that the way we use energy, changing it to a more
efficient fashion, is essential to our national security, because it helps to reduce our
dependence on foreign oil, and helps us deal with some of the dangers posed by climate
change.
So I want this plenary session to understand, America is going to continue on this course of
action to mitigate our emissions and to move towards a clean energy economy, no matter
what happens here in Copenhagen. We think it is good for us, as well as good for the world.
But we also believe that we will all be stronger, all be safer, all be more secure if we act
together. That's why it is in our mutual interest to achieve a global accord in which we agree
to certain steps, and to hold each other accountable to certain commitments.
After months of talk, after two weeks of negotiations, after innumerable side meetings,
bilateral meetings, endless hours of discussion among negotiators, I believe that the pieces of
that accord should now be clear.
First, all major economies must put forward decisive national actions that will reduce their
emissions, and begin to turn the corner on climate change. I'm pleased that many of us have
already done so. Almost all the major economies have put forward legitimate targets,
significant targets, ambitious targets. And I'm confident that America will fulfill the
commitments that we have made: cutting our emissions in the range of 17 percent by 2020,
and by more than 80 percent by 2050 in line with final legislation.
Second, we must have a mechanism to review whether we are keeping our commitments, and
exchange this information in a transparent manner. These measures need not be intrusive, or
infringe upon sovereignty. They must, however, ensure that an accord is credible, and that
we're living up to our obligations. Without such accountability, any agreement would be empty
words on a page.
I don't know how you have an international agreement where we all are not sharing
information and ensuring that we are meeting our commitments. That doesn't make sense. It
would be a hollow victory.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Number three, we must have financing that helps developing countries adapt, particularly the
least developed and most vulnerable countries to climate change. America will be a part of
fast-start funding that will ramp up to $10 billion by 2012. And yesterday, Secretary Hillary
Clinton, my Secretary of State, made it clear that we will engage in a global effort to mobilize
$100 billion in financing by 2020, if -- and only if -- it is part of a broader accord that I have
just described.
Mitigation. Transparency. Financing. It's a clear formula -- one that embraces the principle of
common but differentiated responses and respective capabilities. And it adds up to a
significant accord -- one that takes us farther than we have ever gone before as an
international community.
I just want to say to this plenary session that we are running short on time. And at this point,
the question is whether we will move forward together or split apart, whether we prefer
posturing to action. I'm sure that many consider this an imperfect framework that I just
described. No country will get everything that it wants. There are those developing countries
that want aid with no strings attached, and no obligations with respect to transparency. They
think that the most advanced nations should pay a higher price. I understand that. There are
those advanced nations who think that developing countries either cannot absorb this
assistance, or that will not be held accountable effectively, and that the world's fastestgrowing emitters should bear a greater share of the burden.
We know the fault lines because we've been imprisoned by them for years. These
international discussions have essentially taken place now for almost two decades, and we
have very little to show for it other than an increased acceleration of the climate change
phenomenon. The time for talk is over. This is the bottom line: We can embrace this accord,
take a substantial step forward, continue to refine it and build upon its foundation. We can do
that, and everyone who is in this room will be part of a historic endeavor -- one that makes
life better for our children and our grandchildren.
Or we can choose delay, falling back into the same divisions that have stood in the way of
action for years. And we will be back having the same stale arguments month after month,
year after year, perhaps decade after decade, all while the danger of climate change grows
until it is irreversible.
Ladies and gentlemen, there is no time to waste. America has made our choice. We have
charted our course. We have made our commitments. We will do what we say. Now I believe
it's the time for the nations and the people of the world to come together behind a common
purpose. We are ready to get this done today -- but there has to be movement on all sides to
recognize that it is better for us to act than to talk; it’s better for us to choose action over
inaction; the future over the past -- and with courage and faith, I believe that we can meet
our responsibility to our people, and the future of our planet.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329859" filename="Barack_Obama_-_UNGA_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20UNGA%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address to the United Nations General Assembly (65th Session)
delivered 23 September 2010, New York, New York

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Mr. President, Mr. Secretary-General, my fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great
honor to address this Assembly for the second time, nearly two years after my election as
President of the United States.
We know this is no ordinary time for our people. Each of us comes here with our own
problems and priorities. But there are also challenges that we share in common as leaders
and as nations.
We meet within an institution built from the rubble of war, designed to unite the world in
pursuit of peace. And we meet within a city that for centuries has welcomed people from
across the globe, demonstrating that individuals of every color, faith and station can come
together to pursue opportunity, build a community, and live with the blessing of human
liberty.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Outside the doors of this hall, the blocks and neighborhoods of this great city tell the story of
a difficult decade. Nine years ago, the destruction of the World Trade Center signaled a threat
that respected no boundary of dignity or decency. Two years ago this month, a financial crisis
on Wall Street devastated American families on Main Street. These separate challenges have
affected people around the globe. Men and women and children have been murdered by
extremists from Casablanca to London; from Jalalabad to Jakarta. The global economy
suffered an enormous blow during the financial crisis, crippling markets and deferring the
dreams of millions on every continent.
Underneath these challenges to our security and prosperity lie deeper fears: that ancient
hatreds and religious divides are once again ascendant; that a world which has grown more
interconnected has somehow slipped beyond our control.
These are some of the challenges that my administration has confronted since we came into
office. And today, I’d like to talk to you about what we’ve done over the last 20 months to
meet these challenges; what our responsibility is to pursue peace in the Middle East; and what
kind of world we are trying to build in this 21st century.
Let me begin with what we have done. I have had no greater focus as President than
rescuing our economy from potential catastrophe. And in an age when prosperity is shared,
we could not do this alone. So America has joined with nations around the world to spur
growth, and the renewed demand that could restart job creation.
We are reforming our system of global finance, beginning with Wall Street reform here at
home, so that a crisis like this never happens again. And we made the G20 the focal point for
international coordination, because in a world where prosperity is more diffuse, we must
broaden our circle of cooperation to include emerging economies -- economies from every
corner of the globe.
There is much to show for our efforts, even as there is much work to be done. The global
economy has been pulled back from the brink of a depression, and is growing once more. We
have resisted protectionism, and are exploring ways to expand trade and commerce among
nations. But we cannot -- and will not -- rest until these seeds of progress grow into a
broader prosperity, not only for all Americans, but for peoples around the globe.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
As for our common security, America is waging a more effective fight against al Qaeda, while
winding down the war in Iraq. Since I took office, the United States has removed nearly
100,000 troops from Iraq. We have done so responsibly, as Iraqis have transitioned to lead
responsibility for the security of their country.
We are now focused on building a lasting partnership with the Iraqi people, while keeping our
commitment to remove the rest of our troops by the end of next year.
While drawing down in Iraq, we have refocused on defeating al Qaeda and denying its
affiliates a safe haven. In Afghanistan, the United States and our allies are pursuing a
strategy to break the Taliban’s momentum and build the capacity of Afghanistan’s government
and security forces, so that a transition to Afghan responsibility can begin next July. And from
South Asia to the Horn of Africa, we are moving toward a more targeted approach -- one that
strengthens our partners and dismantles terrorist networks without deploying large American
armies.
As we pursue the world’s most dangerous extremists, we’re also denying them the world’s
most dangerous weapons, and pursuing the peace and security of a world without nuclear
weapons.
Earlier this year, 47 nations embraced a work-plan to secure all vulnerable nuclear materials
within four years. We have joined with Russia to sign the most comprehensive arms control
treaty in decades. We have reduced the role of nuclear weapons in our security strategy.
And here, at the United Nations, we came together to strengthen the Nuclear NonProliferation Treaty.
As part of our effort on non-proliferation, I offered the Islamic Republic of Iran an extended
hand last year, and underscored that it has both rights and responsibilities as a member of
the international community. I also said -- in this hall -- that Iran must be held accountable if
it failed to meet those responsibilities. And that is what we have done.
Iran is the only party to the NPT that cannot demonstrate the peaceful intentions of its nuclear
program, and those actions have consequences. Through U.N. Security Council Resolution
1929, we made it clear that international law is not an empty promise.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now let me be clear once more: The United States and the international community seek a
resolution to our differences with Iran, and the door remains open to diplomacy should Iran
choose to walk through it. But the Iranian government must demonstrate a clear and credible
commitment and confirm to the world the peaceful intent of its nuclear program.
As we combat the spread of deadly weapons, we’re also confronting the specter of climate
change. After making historic investments in clean energy and efficiency at home, we helped
forge an accord in Copenhagen that -- for the first time -- commits all major economies to
reduce their emissions. We are keenly aware this is just a first step. And going forward, we
will support a process in which all major economies meet our responsibilities to protect the
planet while unleashing the power of clean energy to serve as an engine of growth and
development.
America has also embraced unique responsibilities with come -- that come with our power.
Since the rains came and the floodwaters rose in Pakistan, we have pledged our assistance,
and we should all support the Pakistani people as they recover and rebuild. And when the
earth shook and Haiti was devastated by loss, we joined a coalition of nations in response.
Today, we honor those from the U.N. family who lost their lives in the earthquake, and
commit ourselves to stand with the people of Haiti until they can stand on their own two feet.
Amidst this upheaval, we have also been persistent in our pursuit of peace. Last year, I
pledged my best efforts to support the goal of two states, Israel and Palestine, living side by
side in peace and security, as part of a comprehensive peace between Israel and all of its
neighbors.
We have travelled a winding road over the last 12 months, with few peaks and many valleys.
But this month, I am pleased that we have pursued direct negotiations between Israelis and
Palestinians in Washington, Sharm el Sheikh and Jerusalem.
Now I recognize many are pessimistic about this process. The cynics say that Israelis and
Palestinians are too distrustful of each other, and too divided internally, to forge lasting
peace. Rejectionists on both sides will try to disrupt the process, with bitter words and with
bombs and with gunfire. Some say that the gaps between the parties are too big; the
potential for talks to break down is too great; and that after decades of failure, peace is
simply not possible.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
I hear those voices of skepticism. But I ask you to consider the alternative. If an agreement
is not reached, Palestinians will never know the pride and dignity that comes with their own
state. Israelis will never know the certainty and security that comes with sovereign and stable
neighbors who are committed to coexistence. The hard realities of demography will take
hold. More blood will be shed. This Holy Land will remain a symbol of our differences, instead
of our common humanity.
I refuse to accept that future. And we all have a choice to make. Each of us must choose the
path of peace. Of course, that responsibility begins with the parties themselves, who must
answer the call of history. Earlier this month at the White House, I was struck by the words of
both the Israeli and Palestinian leaders. Prime Minister Netanyahu said, “I came here today to
find a historic compromise that will enable both people to live in peace, security, and dignity.”
And President Abbas said, “We will spare no effort and we will work diligently and tirelessly to
ensure these negotiations achieve their cause.”
These words must now be followed by action and I believe that both leaders have the courage
to do so. But the road that they have to travel is exceedingly difficult, which is why I call
upon Israelis and Palestinians -- and the world -- to rally behind the goal that these leaders
now share. We know that there will be tests along the way and that one test is fast
approaching. Israel’s settlement moratorium has made a difference on the ground and
improved the atmosphere for talks.
And our position on this issue is well known. We believe that the moratorium should be
extended. We also believe that talks should press on until completed. Now is the time for the
parties to help each other overcome this obstacle. Now is the time to build the trust -- and
provide the time -- for substantial progress to be made. Now is the time for this opportunity
to be seized, so that it does not slip away.
Now, peace must be made by Israelis and Palestinians, but each of us has a responsibility to
do our part as well. Those of us who are friends of Israel must understand that true security
for the Jewish state requires an independent Palestine -- one that allows the Palestinian
people to live with dignity and opportunity.
And those of us who are friends of the Palestinians must understand that the rights of the
Palestinian people will be won only through peaceful means -- including genuine reconciliation
with a secure Israel.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
I know many in this hall count themselves as friends of the Palestinians. But these pledges of
friendship must now be supported by deeds. Those who have signed on to the Arab Peace
Initiative should seize this opportunity to make it real by taking tangible steps towards the
normalization that it promises Israel.
And those who speak on behalf of Palestinian self-government should help the Palestinian
Authority politically and financially, and in doing so help the Palestinians build the institutions
of their state.
Those who long to see an independent Palestine must also stop trying to tear down Israel.
After thousands of years, Jews and Arabs are not strangers in a strange land. After 60 years
in the community of nations, Israel’s existence must not be a subject for debate.
Israel is a sovereign state, and the historic homeland of the Jewish people. It should be clear
to all that efforts to chip away at Israel’s legitimacy will only be met by the unshakeable
opposition of the United States. And efforts to threaten or kill Israelis will do nothing to help
the Palestinian people. The slaughter of innocent Israelis is not resistance -- it’s injustice.
And make no mistake: The courage of a man like President Abbas, who stands up for his
people in front of the world under very difficult circumstances, is far greater than those who
fire rockets at innocent women and children.
The conflict between Israelis and Arabs is as old as this institution. And we can come back
here next year, as we have for the last 60 years, and make long speeches about it. We can
read familiar lists of grievances. We can table the same resolutions. We can further empower
the forces of rejectionism and hate. And we can waste more time by carrying forward an
argument that will not help a single Israeli or Palestinian child achieve a better life. We can
do that.
Or, we can say that this time will be different -- that this time we will not let terror, or
turbulence, or posturing, or petty politics stand in the way. This time, we will think not of
ourselves, but of the young girl in Gaza who wants to have no ceiling on her dreams, or the
young boy in Sderot who wants to sleep without the nightmare of rocket fire.
This time, we should draw upon the teachings of tolerance that lie at the heart of three great
religions that see Jerusalem’s soil as sacred. This time we should reach for what’s best within
ourselves. If we do, when we come back here next year, we can have an agreement that will
lead to a new member of the United Nations -- an independent, sovereign state of Palestine,
living in peace with Israel.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
It is our destiny to bear the burdens of the challenges that I’ve addressed -- recession and
war and conflict. And there is always a sense of urgency -- even emergency -- that drives
most of our foreign policies. Indeed, after millennia marked by wars, this very institution
reflects the desire of human beings to create a forum to deal with emergencies that will
inevitably come.
But even as we confront immediate challenges, we must also summon the foresight to look
beyond them, and consider what we are trying to build over the long term? What is the world
that awaits us when today’s battles are brought to an end? And that is what I would like to
talk about with the remainder of my time today.
One of the first actions of this General Assembly was to adopt a Universal Declaration of
Human Rights in 1948. That Declaration begins by stating that, “recognition of the inherent
dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the
foundation of freedom, justice, and peace in the world.”
The idea is a simple one -- that freedom, justice and peace for the world must begin with
freedom, justice, and peace in the lives of individual human beings. And for the United
States, this is a matter of moral and pragmatic necessity. As Robert Kennedy said, “the
individual man, the child of God, is the touchstone of value, and all society, groups, the state,
exist for his benefit.” So we stand up for universal values because it’s the right thing to do.
But we also know from experience that those who defend these values for their people have
been our closest friends and allies, while those who have denied those rights -- whether
terrorist groups or tyrannical governments -- have chosen to be our adversaries.
Human rights have never gone unchallenged -- not in any of our nations, and not in our
world. Tyranny is still with us -- whether it manifests itself in the Taliban killing girls who try
to go to school, a North Korean regime that enslaves its own people, or an armed group in
Congo-Kinshasa that use rape as a weapon of war.
In times of economic unease, there can also be an anxiety about human rights. Today, as in
past times of economic downturn, some put human rights aside for the promise of short term
stability or the false notion that economic growth can come at the expense of freedom. We
see leaders abolishing term limits. We see crackdowns on civil society. We see corruption
smothering entrepreneurship and good governance. We see democratic reforms deferred
indefinitely.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
As I said last year, each country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of its own people. Yet
experience shows us that history is on the side of liberty; that the strongest foundation for
human progress lies in open economies, open societies, and open governments. To put it
simply, democracy, more than any other form of government, delivers for our citizens. And I
believe that truth will only grow stronger in a world where the borders between nations are
blurred.
America is working to shape a world that fosters this openness, for the rot of a closed or
corrupt economy must never eclipse the energy and innovation of human beings. All of us
want the right to educate our children, to make a decent wage, to care for the sick, and to be
carried as far as our dreams and our deeds will take us. But that depends upon economies
that tap the power of our people, including the potential of women and girls. That means
letting entrepreneurs start a business without paying a bribe and governments that support
opportunity instead of stealing from their people. And that means rewarding hard work,
instead of reckless risk-taking.
Yesterday, I put forward a new development policy that will pursue these goals, recognizing
that dignity is a human right and global development is in our common interest. America will
partner with nations that offer their people a path out of poverty. And together, we must
unleash growth that powers by individuals and emerging markets in all parts of the globe.
There is no reason why Africa should not be an exporter of agriculture, which is why our food
security initiative is empowering farmers. There is no reason why entrepreneurs shouldn’t be
able to build new markets in every society, which is why I hosted a summit on
entrepreneurship earlier this spring, because the obligation of government is to empower
individuals, not to impede them.
The same holds true for civil society. The arc of human progress has been shaped by
individuals with the freedom to assemble and by organizations outside of government that
insisted upon democratic change and by free media that held the powerful accountable. We
have seen that from the South Africans who stood up to apartheid, to the Poles of Solidarity,
to the mothers of the disappeared who spoke out against the Dirty War, to Americans who
marched for the rights of all races, including my own.
Civil society is the conscience of our communities and America will always extend our
engagement abroad with citizens beyond the halls of government. And we will call out those
who suppress ideas and serve as a voice for those who are voiceless. We will promote new
tools of communication so people are empowered to connect with one another and, in

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
repressive societies, to do so with security. We will support a free and open Internet, so
individuals have the information to make up their own minds. And it is time to embrace and
effectively monitor norms that advance the rights of civil society and guarantee its expansion
within and across borders.
Open society supports open government, but it cannot substitute for it. There is no right
more fundamental than the ability to choose your leaders and determine your destiny. Now,
make no mistake: The ultimate success of democracy in the world won’t come because the
United States dictates it; it will come because individual citizens demand a say in how they
are governed.
There is no soil where this notion cannot take root, just as every democracy reflects the
uniqueness of a nation. Later this fall, I will travel to Asia. And I will visit India, which
peacefully threw off colonialism and established a thriving democracy of over a billion people.
I’ll continue to Indonesia, the world’s largest Muslim-majority country, which binds together
thousands of islands through the glue of representative government and civil society. I’ll join
the G20 meeting on the Korean Peninsula, which provides the world’s clearest contrast
between a society that is dynamic and open and free, and one that is imprisoned and closed.
And I will conclude my trip in Japan, an ancient culture that found peace and extraordinary
development through democracy.
Each of these countries gives life to democratic principles in their own way. And even as
some governments roll back reform, we also celebrate the courage of a President in Colombia
who willingly stepped aside, or the promise of a new constitution in Kenya.
The common thread of progress is the principle that government is accountable to its citizens.
And the diversity in this room makes clear -- no one country has all the answers, but all of us
must answer to our own people.
In all parts of the world, we see the promise of innovation to make government more open
and accountable. And now, we must build on that progress. And when we gather back here
next year, we should bring specific commitments to promote transparency; to fight
corruption; to energize civic engagement; to leverage new technologies so that we strengthen
the foundations of freedom in our own countries, while living up to the ideals that can light the
world.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 9

AmericanRhetoric.com
This institution can still play an indispensable role in the advance of human rights. It’s time to
welcome the efforts of U.N. Women to protect the rights of women around the globe.
It’s time for every member state to open its elections to international monitors and increase
the U.N. Democracy Fund. It’s time to reinvigorate U.N. peacekeeping, so that missions have
the resources necessary to succeed, and so atrocities like sexual violence are prevented and
justice is enforced -- because neither dignity nor democracy can thrive without basic security.
And it’s time to make this institution more accountable as well, because the challenges of a
new century demand new ways of serving our common interests.
The world that America seeks is not one we can build on our own. For human rights to reach
those who suffer the boot of oppression, we need your voices to speak out. In particular, I
appeal to those nations who emerged from tyranny and inspired the world in the second half
of the last century -- from South Africa to South Asia; from Eastern Europe to South America.
Don’t stand idly by, don’t be silent, when dissidents elsewhere are imprisoned and protesters
are beaten. Recall your own history. Because part of the price of our own freedom is
standing up for the freedom of others.
That belief will guide America’s leadership in this 21st century. It is a belief that has seen us
through more than two centuries of trial, and it will see us through the challenges we face
today -- be it war or recession; conflict or division.
So even as we have come through a difficult decade, I stand here before you confident in the
future -- a future where Iraq is governed by neither tyrant nor a foreign power, and
Afghanistan is freed from the turmoil of war; a future where the children of Israel and
Palestine can build the peace that was not possible for their parents; a world where the
promise of development reaches into the prisons of poverty and disease; a future where the
cloud of recession gives way to the light of renewal and the dream of opportunity is available
to all.
This future will not be easy to reach. It will not come without setbacks, nor will it be quickly
claimed. But the founding of the United Nations itself is a testament to human progress.
Remember, in times that were far more trying than our own, our predecessors chose the hope
of unity over the ease of division and made a promise to future generations that the dignity
and equality of human beings would be our common cause.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 10

AmericanRhetoric.com
It falls to us to fulfill that promise. And though we will be met by dark forces that will test our
resolve, Americans have always had cause to believe that we can choose a better history; that
we need only to look outside the walls around us. For through the citizens of every
conceivable ancestry who make this city their own, we see living proof that opportunity can be
accessed by all, that what unites us as human beings is far greater than what divides us, and
that people from every part of this world can live together in peace.
Thank you very much.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 1/7/22

Page 11
</doc>
<doc id="file32329827" filename="Barack_Obama_-_UN_Iran_Sanctions.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20UN%20Iran%20Sanctions.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address on UN Security Council Sanctions Against Iran
delivered 9 June 2010

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Alright. Good afternoon, everybody. Today, the United Nations Security Council voted
overwhelmingly to sanction Iran for its continued failure to live up to its obligations. This
resolution will put in place the toughest sanctions ever faced by the Iranian government, and
it sends an unmistakable message about the international community’s commitment to
stopping the spread of nuclear weapons.
For years, the Iranian government has failed to live up to its obligations under the Nuclear
Non-Proliferation Treaty. It has violated its commitments to the International Atomic Energy
Agency. It has ignored U.N. Security Council resolutions. And while Iran’s leaders hide
behind outlandish rhetoric, their actions have been deeply troubling. Indeed, when I took
office just over 16 months ago, Iranian intransigence was well-established. Iran had gone
from zero centrifuges spinning to several thousand, and the international community was
divided about how to move forward.
Yet this day was not inevitable. We made clear from the beginning of my administration that
the United States was prepared to pursue diplomatic solutions to address the concerns over
Iranian nuclear programs. I extended the offer of engagement on the basis of mutual interest
and mutual respect.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
And together with the United Kingdom, with Russia, China, and Germany, we sat down with
our Iranian counterparts. We offered the opportunity of a better relationship between Iran
and the international community -- one that reduced Iran’s political isolation, and increased its
economic integration with the rest of the world. In short, we offered the Iranian government
the prospect of a better future for its people, if -- and only if -- it lives up to its international
obligations.
So there is no double standard at play here. We’ve made it clear, time and again, that we
respect Iran’s right, like all countries, to access peaceful nuclear energy. That is a right
embedded in the NPT -- a treaty that has to serve as the safeguard against a world in which
more nations acquire the world’s most deadly weapons, and international law is treated as an
empty promise. That NPT treaty was signed by all the parties involved, and it is a treaty that
the United States has sought to strengthen from the day I took office, including through our
own commitments to reduce America’s nuclear arsenal.
So let me repeat: We recognize Iran’s rights. But with those rights come responsibilities.
And time and again, the Iranian government has failed to meet those responsibilities. Iran
concealed a nuclear enrichment facility in Qom that raised serious questions about the nature
of its program. Iran further violated its own obligations under U.N. Security Council
resolutions to suspend uranium enrichment. Instead, they’re enriching up to 20 percent. It
has failed to comply fully with IAEA’s requirements. Indeed, Iran is the only NPT signatory in
the world -- the only one -- that cannot convince the IAEA that its nuclear program is
intended for peaceful purposes.
That’s why the international community was compelled to impose these serious
consequences. These are the most comprehensive sanctions that the Iranian government has
faced. They will impose restrictions on Iran’s nuclear activities, its ballistic missile program,
and, for the first time, its conventional military. They will put a new framework in place to
stop Iranian smuggling, and crack down on Iranian banks and financial transactions. They
target individuals, entities, and institutions -- including those associated with the
Revolutionary Guard -- that have supported Iran’s nuclear program and prospered from illicit
activities at the expense of the Iranian people. And we will ensure that these sanctions are
vigorously enforced, just as we continue to refine and enforce our own sanctions on Iran
alongside our friends and our allies.
The strong resolution that was passed today benefited from strong international support. In
voting for it, we were joined by nations from Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America -including Russia and China. And these sanctions show the united view of the international
community that a nuclear arms race in the Middle East is in nobody’s interest, and that
nations must be held accountable for challenging the global non-proliferation regime. The
Iranian government must understand that true security will not come through the pursuit of
nuclear weapons. True security will come through adherence to international law and the
demonstration of its peaceful intent.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We know that the Iranian government will not change its behavior overnight, but today’s vote
demonstrates the growing costs that will come with Iranian intransigence. And I want to be
clear: These sanctions do not close the door on diplomacy. Iran continues to have the
opportunity to take a different and better path. I would like nothing more than to reach the
day when the Iranian government fulfills its international obligations -- a day when these
sanctions are lifted, previous sanctions are lifted, and the Iranian people can finally fulfill the
greatness of the Iranian nation.
Indeed, these sanctions are not directed at the Iranian people. As I said in Cairo, for decades
the Iranian government has defined itself in opposition to my country. But faced with the
opportunity to find a new way forward -- one that would benefit its own people -- the Iranian
government has chosen instead to remain a prisoner of the past.
Saturday will mark one year from the day that an election captivated the attention of the
world -- an event that should have been remembered for how the Iranian people participated
with remarkable enthusiasm, but will instead be remembered for how the Iranian government
brutally suppressed dissent and murdered the innocent, including a young woman left to die in
the street.
Actions do have consequences, and today the Iranian government will face some of those
consequences. Because whether it is threatening the nuclear non-proliferation regime, or the
human rights of its own citizens, or the stability of its own neighbors by supporting terrorism,
the Iranian government continues to demonstrate that its own unjust actions are a threat to
justice everywhere.
I want and hope for the people of Iran that the government of Iran will make a different
choice. It can make a different choice and pursue a course that will reaffirm the NPT as the
basis of global non-proliferation and disarmament -- a course that will advance Iran’s own
security and prosperity, and the peace of the wider world. Today’s sanctions are yet another
signal that if the Iranian government continues to undermine the NPT and the peace that it
protects, then Iran will find itself more isolated, less prosperous and less secure.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3
</doc>
<doc id="file32329718" filename="Barack_Obama_-_United_Nations_General_Assembly.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20United%20Nations%20General%20Assembly.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First Speech Before the United Nations General Assembly

Delivered 23 September 2009, New York, NY

Good morning. Mr. President, Mr. Secretary General, fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen, it is my honor
to address you for the first time as the 44th President of the United States. I come before you humbled by
the responsibility that the American people have placed upon me, mindful of the enormous challenges of our
moment in history, and determined to act boldly and collectively on behalf of justice and prosperity at home
and abroad.
I have been in office for just nine months ­­ though some days it seems a lot longer. I am well aware of the
expectations that accompany my presidency around the world. These expectations are not about me.
Rather, they are rooted, I believe, in a discontent with a status quo that has allowed us to be increasingly
defined by our differences, and outpaced by our problems. But they are also rooted in hope ­­ the hope that
real change is possible, and the hope that America will be a leader in bringing about such change.
I took office at a time when many around the world had come to view America with skepticism and distrust.
Part of this was due to misperceptions and misinformation about my country. Part of this was due to
opposition to specific policies, and a belief that on certain critical issues, America has acted unilaterally,
without regard for the interests of others. And this has fed an almost reflexive anti­Americanism, which too
often has served as an excuse for collective inaction.
Now, like all of you, my responsibility is to act in the interest of my nation and my people, and I will never
apologize for defending those interests. But it is my deeply held belief that in the year 2009 ­­ more than at
any point in human history ­­ the interests of nations and peoples are shared. The religious convictions that
we hold in our hearts can forge new bonds among people, or they can tear us apart. The technology we
harness can light the path to peace, or forever darken it. The energy we use can sustain our planet, or
destroy it. What happens to the hope of a single child ­­ anywhere ­­ can enrich our world, or impoverish it.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
In this hall, we come from many places, but we share a common future. No longer do we have the luxury of
indulging our differences to the exclusion of the work that we must do together. I have carried this message
from London to Ankara; from Port of Spain to Moscow; from Accra to Cairo; and it is what I will speak about
today ­­ because the time has come for the world to move in a new direction. We must embrace a new era
of engagement based on mutual interest and mutual respect, and our work must begin now.
We know the future will be forged by deeds and not simply words. Speeches alone will not solve our
problems ­­ it will take persistent action. For those who question the character and cause of my nation, I ask
you to look at the concrete actions we have taken in just nine months.
On my first day in office, I prohibited ­­ without exception or equivocation ­­ the use of torture by the United
States of America. I ordered the prison at Guantanamo Bay closed, and we are doing the hard work of
forging a framework to combat extremism within the rule of law. Every nation must know: America will live
its values, and we will lead by example.
We have set a clear and focused goal: to work with all members of this body to disrupt, dismantle, and
defeat al Qaeda and its extremist allies ­­ a network that has killed thousands of people of many faiths and
nations, and that plotted to blow up this very building. In Afghanistan and Pakistan, we and many nations
here are helping these governments develop the capacity to take the lead in this effort, while working to
advance opportunity and security for their people.
In Iraq, we are responsibly ending a war. We have removed American combat brigades from Iraqi cities,
and set a deadline of next August to remove all our combat brigades from Iraqi territory. And I have made
clear that we will help Iraqis transition to full responsibility for their future, and keep our commitment to
remove all American troops by the end of 2011.
I have outlined a comprehensive agenda to seek the goal of a world without nuclear weapons. In Moscow,
the United States and Russia announced that we would pursue substantial reductions in our strategic
warheads and launchers. At the Conference on Disarmament, we agreed on a work plan to negotiate an
end to the production of fissile materials for nuclear weapons. And this week, my Secretary of State will
become the first senior American representative to the annual Members Conference of the Comprehensive
Test Ban Treaty.
Upon taking office, I appointed a Special Envoy for Middle East Peace, and America has worked steadily
and aggressively to advance the cause of two states ­­ Israel and Palestine ­­ in which peace and security
take root, and the rights of both Israelis and Palestinians are respected.
To confront climate change, we have invested $80 billion in clean energy. We have substantially increased
our fuel­efficiency standards. We have provided new incentives for conservation, launched an energy
partnership across the Americas, and moved from a bystander to a leader in international climate
negotiations.
To overcome an economic crisis that touches every corner of the world, we worked with the G20 nations to
forge a coordinated international response of over $2 trillion in stimulus to bring the global economy back
from the brink.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
We mobilized resources that helped prevent the crisis from spreading further to developing countries. And
we joined with others to launch a $20 billion global food security initiative that will lend a hand to those who
need it most, and help them build their own capacity.
We've also re­engaged the United Nations. We have paid our bills. We have joined the Human Rights
Council. We have signed the Convention of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. We have fully
embraced the Millennium Development Goals. And we address our priorities here, in this institution ­­ for
instance, through the Security Council meeting that I will chair tomorrow on nuclear non­proliferation and
disarmament, and through the issues that I will discuss today.
This is what we have already done. But this is just a beginning. Some of our actions have yielded
progress. Some have laid the groundwork for progress in the future. But make no mistake: This cannot
solely be America's endeavor. Those who used to chastise America for acting alone in the world cannot
now stand by and wait for America to solve the world's problems alone. We have sought ­­ in word and
deed ­­ a new era of engagement with the world. And now is the time for all of us to take our share of
responsibility for a global response to global challenges.
Now, if we are honest with ourselves, we need to admit that we are not living up to that responsibility.
Consider the course that we're on if we fail to confront the status quo: Extremists sowing terror in pockets of
the world; protracted conflicts that grind on and on; genocide; mass atrocities; more nations with nuclear
weapons; melting ice caps and ravaged populations; persistent poverty and pandemic disease. I say this
not to sow fear, but to state a fact: The magnitude of our challenges has yet to be met by the measure of
our actions.
This body was founded on the belief that the nations of the world could solve their problems together.
Franklin Roosevelt, who died before he could see his vision for this institution become a reality, put it this
way ­­ and I quote: "The structure of world peace cannot be the work of one man, or one party, or one
nation…. It cannot be a peace of large nations ­­ or of small nations. It must be a peace which rests on the
cooperative effort of the whole world."
The cooperative effort of the whole world. Those words ring even more true today, when it is not simply
peace, but our very health and prosperity that we hold in common. Yet we also know that this body is made
up of sovereign states. And sadly, but not surprisingly, this body has often become a forum for sowing
discord instead of forging common ground; a venue for playing politics and exploiting grievances rather than
solving problems. After all, it is easy to walk up to this podium and point figures ­­ point fingers and stoke
divisions. Nothing is easier than blaming others for our troubles, and absolving ourselves of responsibility
for our choices and our actions. Anybody can do that. Responsibility and leadership in the 21st century
demand more.
In an era when our destiny is shared, power is no longer a zero­sum game. No one nation can or should try
to dominate another nation. No world order that elevates one nation or group of people over another will
succeed. No balance of power among nations will hold. The traditional divisions between nations of the
South and the North make no sense in an interconnected world; nor do alignments of nations rooted in the
cleavages of a long­gone Cold War.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
The time has come to realize that the old habits, the old arguments, are irrelevant to the challenges faced by
our people. They lead nations to act in opposition to the very goals that they claim to pursue ­­ and to vote,
often in this body, against the interests of their own people. They build up walls between us and the future
that our people seek, and the time has come for those walls to come down. Together, we must build new
coalitions that bridge old divides ­­ coalitions of different faiths and creeds; of north and south, east, west,
black, white, and brown.
The choice is ours. We can be remembered as a generation that chose to drag the arguments of the 20th
century into the 21st; that put off hard choices, refused to look ahead, failed to keep pace because we
defined ourselves by what we were against instead of what we were for. Or we can be a generation that
chooses to see the shoreline beyond the rough waters ahead; that comes together to serve the common
interests of human beings, and finally gives meaning to the promise embedded in the name given to this
institution: the United Nations.
That is the future America wants ­­ a future of peace and prosperity that we can only reach if we recognize
that all nations have rights, but all nations have responsibilities as well. That is the bargain that makes this
work. That must be the guiding principle of international cooperation.
Today, let me put forward four pillars that I believe are fundamental to the future that we want for our
children: non­proliferation and disarmament; the promotion of peace and security; the preservation of our
planet; and a global economy that advances opportunity for all people.
First, we must stop the spread of nuclear weapons, and seek the goal of a world without them.
This institution was founded at the dawn of the atomic age, in part because man's capacity to kill had to be
contained. For decades, we averted disaster, even under the shadow of a superpower stand­off. But today,
the threat of proliferation is growing in scope and complexity. If we fail to act, we will invite nuclear arms
races in every region, and the prospect of wars and acts of terror on a scale that we can hardly imagine.
A fragile consensus stands in the way of this frightening outcome, and that is the basic bargain that shapes
the Nuclear Non­Proliferation Treaty. It says that all nations have the right to peaceful nuclear energy; that
nations with nuclear weapons have a responsibility to move toward disarmament; and those without them
have the responsibility to forsake them. The next 12 months could be pivotal in determining whether this
compact will be strengthened or will slowly dissolve.
America intends to keep our end of the bargain. We will pursue a new agreement with Russia to
substantially reduce our strategic warheads and launchers. We will move forward with ratification of the
Test Ban Treaty, and work with others to bring the treaty into force so that nuclear testing is permanently
prohibited. We will complete a Nuclear Posture Review that opens the door to deeper cuts and reduces the
role of nuclear weapons. And we will call upon countries to begin negotiations in January on a treaty to end
the production of fissile material for weapons.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
I will also host a summit next April that reaffirms each nation's responsibility to secure nuclear material on its
territory, and to help those who can't ­­ because we must never allow a single nuclear device to fall into the
hands of a violent extremist. And we will work to strengthen the institutions and initiatives that combat
nuclear smuggling and theft.
All of this must support efforts to strengthen the NPT. Those nations that refuse to live up to their
obligations must face consequences. Let me be clear, this is not about singling out individual nations ­­ it is
about standing up for the rights of all nations that do live up to their responsibilities. Because a world in
which IAEA inspections are avoided and the United Nation's demands are ignored will leave all people less
safe, and all nations less secure.
In their actions to date, the governments of North Korea and Iran threaten to take us down this dangerous
slope. We respect their rights as members of the community of nations. I've said before and I will repeat, I
am committed to diplomacy that opens a path to greater prosperity and more secure peace for both nations
if they live up to their obligations.
But if the governments of Iran and North Korea choose to ignore international standards; if they put the
pursuit of nuclear weapons ahead of regional stability and the security and opportunity of their own people; if
they are oblivious to the dangers of escalating nuclear arms races in both East Asia and the Middle East ­­
then they must be held accountable. The world must stand together to demonstrate that international law is
not an empty promise, and that treaties will be enforced. We must insist that the future does not belong to
fear.
That brings me to the second pillar for our future: the pursuit of peace.
The United Nations was born of the belief that the people of the world can live their lives, raise their families,
and resolve their differences peacefully. And yet we know that in too many parts of the world, this ideal
remains an abstraction ­­ a distant dream. We can either accept that outcome as inevitable, and tolerate
constant and crippling conflict, or we can recognize that the yearning for peace is universal, and reassert
our resolve to end conflicts around the world.
That effort must begin with an unshakeable determination that the murder of innocent men, women and
children will never be tolerated. On this, no one can be ­­ there can be no dispute. The violent extremists
who promote conflict by distorting faith have discredited and isolated themselves. They offer nothing but
hatred and destruction. In confronting them, America will forge lasting partnerships to target terrorists,
share intelligence, and coordinate law enforcement and protect our people. We will permit no safe haven
for al Qaeda to launch attacks from Afghanistan or any other nation. We will stand by our friends on the
front lines, as we and many nations will do in pledging support for the Pakistani people tomorrow. And we
will pursue positive engagement that builds bridges among faiths, and new partnerships for opportunity.
Our efforts to promote peace, however, cannot be limited to defeating violent extremists. For the most
powerful weapon in our arsenal is the hope of human beings ­­ the belief that the future belongs to those
who would build and not destroy; the confidence that conflicts can end and a new day can begin.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that is why we will support ­­ we will strengthen our support for effective peacekeeping, while energizing
our efforts to prevent conflicts before they take hold. We will pursue a lasting peace in Sudan through
support for the people of Darfur and the implementation of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement, so that
we secure the peace that the Sudanese people deserve. And in countries ravaged by violence ­­ from Haiti
to Congo to East Timor ­­ we will work with the U.N. and other partners to support an enduring peace.
I will also continue to seek a just and lasting peace between Israel, Palestine, and the Arab world. We will
continue to work on that issue. Yesterday, I had a constructive meeting with Prime Minister Netanyahu and
President Abbas. We have made some progress. Palestinians have strengthened their efforts on security.
Israelis have facilitated greater freedom of movement for the Palestinians. As a result of these efforts on
both sides, the economy in the West Bank has begun to grow. But more progress is needed. We continue
to call on Palestinians to end incitement against Israel, and we continue to emphasize that America does not
accept the legitimacy of continued Israeli settlements.
The time has come ­­ the time has come to re­launch negotiations without preconditions that address the
permanent status issues: security for Israelis and Palestinians, borders, refugees, and Jerusalem. And the
goal is clear: Two states living side by side in peace and security ­­ a Jewish state of Israel, with true
security for all Israelis; and a viable, independent Palestinian state with contiguous territory that ends the
occupation that began in 1967, and realizes the potential of the Palestinian people.
As we pursue this goal, we will also pursue peace between Israel and Lebanon, Israel and Syria, and a
broader peace between Israel and its many neighbors. In pursuit of that goal, we will develop regional
initiatives with multilateral participation, alongside bilateral negotiations.
Now, I am not naïve. I know this will be difficult. But all of us ­­ not just the Israelis and the Palestinians, but
all of us ­­ must decide whether we are serious about peace, or whether we will only lend it lip service. To
break the old patterns, to break the cycle of insecurity and despair, all of us must say publicly what we
would acknowledge in private. The United States does Israel no favors when we fail to couple an
unwavering commitment to its security with an insistence that Israel respect the legitimate claims and rights
of the Palestinians. And ­­ And nations within this body do the Palestinians no favors when they choose
vitriolic attacks against Israel over constructive willingness to recognize Israel's legitimacy and its right to
exist in peace and security.
We must remember that the greatest price of this conflict is not paid by us. It's not paid by politicians. It's
paid by the Israeli girl in Sderot who closes her eyes in fear that a rocket will take her life in the middle of the
night. It's paid for by the Palestinian boy in Gaza who has no clean water and no country to call his own.
These are all God's children. And after all the politics and all the posturing, this is about the right of every
human being to live with dignity and security. That is a lesson embedded in the three great faiths that call
one small slice of Earth the Holy Land. And that is why, even though there will be setbacks and false starts
and tough days, I will not waver in my pursuit of peace.
Third, we must recognize that in the 21st century, there will be no peace unless we take responsibility for
the preservation of our planet. And I thank the Secretary General for hosting the subject of climate change
yesterday.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
The danger posed by climate change cannot be denied. Our responsibility to meet it must not be deferred.
If we continue down our current course, every member of this Assembly will see irreversible changes within
their borders. Our efforts to end conflicts will be eclipsed by wars over refugees and resources.
Development will be devastated by drought and famine. Land that human beings have lived on for millennia
will disappear. Future generations will look back and wonder why we refused to act; why we failed to pass
on ­­ why we failed to pass on an environment that was worthy of our inheritance.
And that is why the days when America dragged its feet on this issue are over. We will move forward with
investments to transform our energy economy, while providing incentives to make clean energy the
profitable kind of energy. We will press ahead with deep cuts in emissions to reach the goals that we set for
2020, and eventually 2050. We will continue to promote renewable energy and efficiency, and share new
technologies with countries around the world. And we will seize every opportunity for progress to address
this threat in a cooperative effort with the entire world.
And those wealthy nations that did so much damage to the environment in the 20th century must accept our
obligation to lead. But responsibility does not end there. While we must acknowledge the need for
differentiated responses, any effort to curb carbon emissions must include the fast­growing carbon emitters
who can do more to reduce their air pollution without inhibiting growth. And any effort that fails to help the
poorest nations both adapt to the problems that climate change have already wrought and help them travel
a path of clean development simply will not work.
It's hard to change something as fundamental as how we use energy. I know that. It's even harder to do so
in the midst of a global recession. Certainly, it will be tempting to sit back and wait for others to move first.
But we cannot make this journey unless we all move forward together. As we head into Copenhagen, let us
resolve to focus on what each of us can do for the sake of our common future.
And this leads me to the final pillar that must fortify our future: a global economy that advances opportunity
for all people.
The world is still recovering from the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression. In America, we see
the engine of growth beginning to churn, and yet many still struggle to find a job or pay their bills. Across
the globe, we find promising signs, but little certainty about what lies ahead. And far too many people in far
too many places live through the daily crises that challenge our humanity ­­ the despair of an empty
stomach; the thirst brought on by dwindling water supplies; the injustice of a child dying from a treatable
disease; or a mother losing her life as she gives birth.
In Pittsburgh, we will work with the world's largest economies to chart a course for growth that is balanced
and sustained. That means vigilance to ensure that we do not let up until our people are back to work. That
means taking steps to rekindle demand so that global recovery can be sustained. And that means setting
new rules of the road and strengthening regulation for all financial centers, so that we put an end to the
greed and the excess and the abuse that led us into this disaster, and prevent a crisis like this from ever
happening again.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
At a time of such interdependence, we have a moral and pragmatic interest, however, in broader questions
of development ­­ the questions of development that existed even before this crisis happened. And so
America will continue our historic effort to help people feed themselves. We have set aside $63 billion to
carry forward the fight against HIV/AIDS, to end deaths from tuberculosis and malaria, to eradicate polio,
and to strengthen public health systems. We are joining with other countries to contribute H1N1 vaccines to
the World Health Organization. We will integrate more economies into a system of global trade. We will
support the Millennium Development Goals, and approach next year's summit with a global plan to make
them a reality. And we will set our sights on the eradication of extreme poverty in our time.
Now is the time for all of us to do our part. Growth will not be sustained or shared unless all nations
embrace their responsibilities. And that means that wealthy nations must open their markets to more goods
and extend a hand to those with less, while reforming international institutions to give more nations a greater
voice. And developing nations must root out the corruption that is an obstacle to progress ­­ for opportunity
cannot thrive where individuals are oppressed and business have to pay bribes. That is why we support
honest police and independent judges; civil society and a vibrant private sector. Our goal is simple: a
global economy in which growth is sustained, and opportunity is available to all.
Now, the changes that I've spoken about today will not be easy to make. And they will not be realized
simply by leaders like us coming together in forums like this, as useful as that may be. For as in any
assembly of members, real change can only come through the people we represent. That is why we must
do the hard work to lay the groundwork for progress in our own capitals. That's where we will build the
consensus to end conflicts and to harness technology for peaceful purposes, to change the way we use
energy, and to promote growth that can be sustained and shared.
I believe that the people of the world want this future for their children. And that is why we must champion
those principles which ensure that governments reflect the will of the people. These principles cannot be
afterthoughts ­­ democracy and human rights are essential to achieving each of the goals that I've
discussed today, because governments of the people and by the people are more likely to act in the broader
interests of their own people, rather than narrow interests of those in power.
The test of our leadership will not be the degree to which we feed the fears and old hatreds of our people.
True leadership will not be measured by the ability to muzzle dissent, or to intimidate and harass political
opponents at home. The people of the world want change. They will not long tolerate those who are on the
wrong side of history.
This Assembly's Charter commits each of us ­­ and I quote ­­ "to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights,
in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of men and women." Among those rights is
the freedom to speak your mind and worship as you please; the promise of equality of the races, and the
opportunity for women and girls to pursue their own potential; the ability of citizens to have a say in how you
are governed, and to have confidence in the administration of justice. For just as no nation should be forced
to accept the tyranny of another nation, no individual should be forced to accept the tyranny of their own
people.
As an African American, I will never forget that I would not be here today without the steady pursuit of a
more perfect union in my country.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 8

AmericanRhetoric.com
And that guides my belief that no matter how dark the day may seem, transformative change can be forged
by those who choose to side with justice. And I pledge that America will always stand with those who stand
up for their dignity and their rights ­­ for the student who seeks to learn; the voter who demands to be heard;
the innocent who longs to be free; the oppressed who yearns to be equal.
Democracy cannot be imposed on any nation from the outside. Each society must search for its own path,
and no path is perfect. Each country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of its people and in its past
traditions. And I admit that America has too often been selective in its promotion of democracy. But that
does not weaken our commitment; it only reinforces it. There are basic principles that are universal; there
are certain truths which are self­evident ­­ and the United States of America will never waver in our efforts to
stand up for the right of people everywhere to determine their own destiny.
Sixty­five years ago, a weary Franklin Roosevelt spoke to the American people in his fourth and final
inaugural address. After years of war, he sought to sum up the lessons that could be drawn from the terrible
suffering, the enormous sacrifice that had taken place. "We have learned," he said, "to be citizens of the
world, members of the human community."
The United Nations was built by men and women like Roosevelt from every corner of the world ­­ from Africa
and Asia, from Europe to the Americas. These architects of international cooperation had an idealism that
was anything but naïve ­­ it was rooted in the hard­earned lessons of war; rooted in the wisdom that nations
could advance their interests by acting together instead of splitting apart.
Now it falls to us ­­ for this institution will be what we make of it. The United Nations does extraordinary
good around the world ­­ feeding the hungry, caring for the sick, mending places that have been broken.
But it also struggles to enforce its will, and to live up to the ideals of its founding.
I believe that those imperfections are not a reason to walk away from this institution ­­ they are a calling to
redouble our efforts. The United Nations can either be a place where we bicker about outdated grievances,
or forge common ground; a place where we focus on what drives us apart, or what brings us together; a
place where we indulge tyranny, or a source of moral authority. In short, the United Nations can be an
institution that is disconnected from what matters in the lives of our citizens, or it can be an indispensable
factor in advancing the interests of the people we serve.
We have reached a pivotal moment. The United States stands ready to begin a new chapter of international
cooperation ­­ one that recognizes the rights and responsibilities of all nations. And so, with confidence in
our cause, and with a commitment to our values, we call on all nations to join us in building the future that
our people so richly deserve.
Thank you very much, everybody.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2010. All rights reserved.

Page 9
</doc>
<doc id="file32329709" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Wakefield_Back_to_High_School.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Wakefield%20Back%20to%20High%20School.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Back-to-School Speech at Wakefield High School
delivered 8 September 2009, Arlington, Virginia

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Hello, everybody! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. All right, everybody go
ahead and have a seat. How is everybody doing today? How about Tim Spicer? I am here with
students at Wakefield High School in Arlington, Virginia. And we've got students tuning in
from all across America, from kindergarten through 12th grade. And I am just so glad that all
could join us today. And I want to thank Wakefield for being such an outstanding host. Give
yourselves a big round of applause.
I know that for many of you, today is the first day of school. And for those of you in
kindergarten, or starting middle or high school, it's your first day in a new school, so it's
understandable if you're a little nervous. I imagine there are some seniors out there who are
feeling pretty good right now -- with just one more year to go. And no matter what grade
you're in, some of you are probably wishing it were still summer and you could've stayed in
bed just a little bit longer this morning.
I know that feeling. When I was young, my family lived overseas. I lived in Indonesia for a
few years. And my mother, she didn't have the money to send me where all the American kids
went to school, but she thought it was important for me to keep up with an American
education. So she decided to teach me extra lessons herself, Monday through Friday. But
because she had to go to work, the only time she could do it was at 4:30 in the morning.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, as you might imagine, I wasn't too happy about getting up that early. And a lot of times,
I'd fall asleep right there at the kitchen table. But whenever I'd complain, my mother would
just give me one of those looks and she'd say, "This is no picnic for me either, buster."
So I know that some of you are still adjusting to being back at school. But I'm here today
because I have something important to discuss with you. I'm here because I want to talk with
you about your education and what's expected of all of you in this new school year.
Now, I've given a lot of speeches about education. And I've talked about responsibility a lot.
I've talked about teachers' responsibility for inspiring students and pushing you to learn.
I've talked about your parents' responsibility for making sure you stay on track, and you get
your homework done, and don't spend every waking hour in front of the TV or with the Xbox.
I've talked a lot about your government's responsibility for setting high standards, and
supporting teachers and principals, and turning around schools that aren't working, where
students aren't getting the opportunities that they deserve.
But at the end of the day, we can have the most dedicated teachers, the most supportive
parents, the best schools in the world -- and none of it will make a difference, none of it will
matter unless all of you fulfill your responsibilities, unless you show up to those schools,
unless you pay attention to those teachers, unless you listen to your parents and
grandparents and other adults and put in the hard work it takes to succeed. That's what I
want to focus on today: the responsibility each of you has for your education.
I want to start with the responsibility you have to yourself. Every single one of you has
something that you're good at. Every single one of you has something to offer. And you have
a responsibility to yourself to discover what that is. That's the opportunity an education can
provide.
Maybe you could be a great writer -- maybe even good enough to write a book or articles in a
newspaper -- but you might not know it until you write that English paper -- that English class
paper that's assigned to you. Maybe you could be an innovator or an inventor -- maybe even
good enough to come up with the next iPhone or the new medicine or vaccine -- but you
might not know it until you do your project for your science class. Maybe you could be a
mayor or a senator or a Supreme Court justice -- but you might not know that until you join
student government or the debate team.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And no matter what you want to do with your life, I guarantee that you'll need an education to
do it. You want to be a doctor, or a teacher, or a police officer? You want to be a nurse or an
architect, a lawyer or a member of our military? You're going to need a good education for
every single one of those careers. You cannot drop out of school and just drop into a good job.
You've got to train for it and work for it and learn for it.
And this isn't just important for your own life and your own future. What you make of your
education will decide nothing less than the future of this country. The future of America
depends on you. What you're learning in school today will determine whether we as a nation
can meet our greatest challenges in the future.
You'll need the knowledge and problem-solving skills you learn in science and math to cure
diseases like cancer and AIDS, and to develop new energy technologies and protect our
environment. You'll need the insights and critical-thinking skills you gain in history and social
studies to fight poverty and homelessness, crime and discrimination, and make our nation
more fair and more free. You'll need the creativity and ingenuity you develop in all your
classes to build new companies that will create new jobs and boost our economy.
We need every single one of you to develop your talents and your skills and your intellect so
you can help us old folks solve our most difficult problems. If you don't do that -- if you quit
on school -- you're not just quitting on yourself, you're quitting on your country.
Now, I know it's not always easy to do well in school. I know a lot of you have challenges in
your lives right now that can make it hard to focus on your schoolwork.
I get it. I know what it's like. My father left my family when I was two years old, and I was
raised by a single mom who had to work and who struggled at times to pay the bills and
wasn't always able to give us the things that other kids had. There were times when I missed
having a father in my life. There were times when I was lonely and I felt like I didn't fit in.
So I wasn't always as focused as I should have been on school, and I did some things I'm not
proud of, and I got in more trouble than I should have. And my life could have easily taken a
turn for the worse.
But I was -- I was lucky. I got a lot of second chances, and I had the opportunity to go to
college and law school and follow my dreams. My wife, our First Lady Michelle Obama, she has
a similar story. Neither of her parents had gone to college, and they didn't have a lot of

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
money. But they worked hard, and she worked hard, so that she could go to the best schools
in this country.
Some of you might not have those advantages. Maybe you don't have adults in your life who
give you the support that you need. Maybe someone in your family has lost their job and
there's not enough money to go around. Maybe you live in a neighborhood where you don't
feel safe, or have friends who are pressuring you to do things you know aren't right.
But at the end of the day, the circumstances of your life -- what you look like, where you
come from, how much money you have, what you've got going on at home -- none of that is
an excuse for neglecting your homework or having a bad attitude in school. That's no excuse
for talking back to your teacher, or cutting class, or dropping out of school. There is no excuse
for not trying.
Where you are right now doesn't have to determine where you'll end up. No one's written your
destiny for you, because here in America, you write your own destiny. You make your own
future.
That's what young people like you are doing every day, all across America.
Young people like Jazmin Perez, from Roma, Texas. Jazmin didn't speak English when she first
started school. Neither of her parents had gone to college. But she worked hard, earned good
grades, and got a scholarship to Brown University -- is now in graduate school, studying
public health, on her way to becoming Dr. Jazmin Perez.
I'm thinking about Andoni Schultz, from Los Altos, California, who's fought brain cancer since
he was three. He's had to endure all sorts of treatments and surgeries, one of which affected
his memory, so it took him much longer -- hundreds of extra hours -- to do his schoolwork.
But he never fell behind. He's headed to college this fall.
And then there's Shantell Steve, from my hometown of Chicago, Illinois. Even when bouncing
from foster home to foster home in the toughest neighborhoods in the city, she managed to
get a job at a local health care center, start a program to keep young people out of gangs,
and she's on track to graduate high school with honors and go on to college.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
And Jazmin, Andoni, and Shantell aren't any different from any of you. They face challenges in
their lives just like you do. In some cases they've got it a lot worse off than many of you. But
they refused to give up. They chose to take responsibility for their lives, for their education,
and set goals for themselves. And I expect all of you to do the same.
That's why today I'm calling on each of you to set your own goals for your education -- and do
everything you can to meet them. Your goal can be something as simple as doing all your
homework, paying attention in class, or spending some time each day reading a book. Maybe
you'll decide to get involved in an extracurricular activity, or volunteer in your community.
Maybe you'll decide to stand up for kids who are being teased or bullied because of who they
are or how they look, because you believe, like I do, that all young people deserve a safe
environment to study and learn. Maybe you'll decide to take better care of yourself so you can
be more ready to learn. And along those lines, by the way, I hope all of you are washing your
hands a lot, and that you stay home from school when you don't feel well, so we can keep
people from getting the flu this fall and winter.
But whatever you resolve to do, I want you to commit to it. I want you to really work at it.
I know that sometimes you get that sense from TV that you can be rich and successful
without any hard work -- that your ticket to success is through rapping or basketball or being
a reality TV star. Chances are you're not going to be any of those things.
The truth is, being successful is hard. You won't love every subject that you study. You won't
click with every teacher that you have. Not every homework assignment will seem completely
relevant to your life right at this minute. And you won't necessarily succeed at everything the
first time you try.
That's okay. Some of the most successful people in the world are the ones who've had the
most failures. J.K. Rowling's -- who wrote Harry Potter -- her first Harry Potter book was
rejected 12 times before it was finally published. Michael Jordan was cut from his high school
basketball team. He lost hundreds of games and missed thousands of shots during his career.
But he once said, "I have failed over and over and over again in my life. And that's why I
succeed."
These people succeeded because they understood that you can't let your failures define you -you have to let your failures teach you. You have to let them show you what to do differently
the next time. So if you get into trouble, that doesn't mean you're a troublemaker, it means

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
you need to try harder to act right. If you get a bad grade, that doesn't mean you're stupid, it
just means you need to spend more time studying.
No one's born being good at all things. You become good at things through hard work. You're
not a varsity athlete the first time you play a new sport. You don't hit every note the first time
you sing a song. You've got to practice. The same principle applies to your schoolwork. You
might have to do a math problem a few times before you get it right. You might have to read
something a few times before you understand it. You definitely have to do a few drafts of a
paper before it's good enough to hand in.
Don't be afraid to ask questions. Don't be afraid to ask for help when you need it. I do that
every day. Asking for help isn't a sign of weakness, it's a sign of strength because it shows
you have the courage to admit when you don't know something, and that then allows you to
learn something new. So find an adult that you trust -- a parent, a grandparent or teacher, a
coach or a counselor -- and ask them to help you stay on track to meet your goals.
And even when you're struggling, even when you're discouraged, and you feel like other
people have given up on you, don't ever give up on yourself, because when you give up on
yourself, you give up on your country.
The story of America isn't about people who quit when things got tough. It's about people who
kept going, who tried harder, who loved their country too much to do anything less than their
best.
It's the story of students who sat where you sit 250 years ago, and went on to wage a
revolution and they founded this nation. Young people. Students who sat where you sit 75
years ago who overcame a Depression and won a world war; who fought for civil rights and
put a man on the moon. Students who sat where you sit 20 years ago who founded Google
and Twitter and Facebook and changed the way we communicate with each other.
So today, I want to ask all of you, what's your contribution going to be? What problems are
you going to solve? What discoveries will you make? What will a President who comes here in
20 or 50 or 100 years say about what all of you did for this country?
Now, your families, your teachers, and I are doing everything we can to make sure you have
the education you need to answer these questions. I'm working hard to fix up your classrooms
and get you the books and the equipment and the computers you need to learn. But you've
got to do your part, too.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
So I expect all of you to get serious this year. I expect you to put your best effort into
everything you do. I expect great things from each of you. So don't let us down. Don't let
your family down or your country down. Most of all, don't let yourself down. Make us all
proud.
Thank you very much, everybody.
God bless you. God bless America.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Updated 12/14/21

Page 7
</doc>
<doc id="file32329711" filename="Barack_Obama_-_Walter_Cronkite_Memorial.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20Walter%20Cronkite%20Memorial.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Address at the Walter Cronkite Memorial Service

Delivered 9 September 2009, Lincoln Center, New York, NY

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

To Chip, Kathy, and Nancy, who graciously shared your father with a nation that loved him; to
Walter's friends, colleagues, protégés, and all who considered him a hero; to the men of the
Intrepid; to all of you who are gathered here today; I am honored to be here to pay tribute to
the life and times of the man who chronicled our time.
I did not know Mr. Cronkite personally. And my regret is made more acute by the stories that
have been shared here today. Nor, for that matter, did I know him any better than the tens of
millions who turned to him each night in search of the answer to a simple question: "What
happened today?" But like them and like all of you, I have benefited as a citizen from his
dogged pursuit of the truth, his passionate defense of objective reporting, and his view that
journalism is more than just a profession; it is a public good vital to our democracy.
Even in his early career, Walter Cronkite resisted the temptation to get the story first in favor
of getting it right. He wanted to get it first, but he understood the importance of getting it
right. During one of his first jobs in Kansas City, Walter's program manager urged him to go
on the air reporting a massive blaze -- and we just heard how much he loved fires -- a
massive blaze at city hall that had already claimed lives. When Walter reached for the
telephone, his boss asked, "What are you doing; get on the air!" Walter replied that he was
calling the fire department to confirm the story. "You don't need to confirm it," the manager
shouted, "My wife is watching the whole thing!"

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Needless to say, Walter made the call, and even as the program manager took to the air
himself to broadcast the unfolding tragedy, Walter discovered that it had been nothing more
than a small fire that hadn't resulted in any injuries. He lost his job -- but he got the story
right.
Walter wasn't afraid to rattle the high and the mighty, either; but he never dared to
compromise his integrity. He got along with elected officials, even if they were wary of one
another's motives. One politician once remarked, "Walter, my friend, you've got to believe
me, fully 85 percent of everything I told you today is the absolute truth."
He shared a complicated relationship with Presidents of both parties, who wanted him on their
side even as they were convinced that he wasn't. President Johnson called Walter after the
evening news from time to time to voice his displeasure over a certain story. But Walter knew
that if he was receiving vociferous complaints from both sides, he must be doing his job.
His endless inquisitiveness about our world, I can imagine, came from a mother who sold
encyclopedias for a living. As a boy, Walter spent countless hours getting lost within their
pages, endlessly sidetracked by new and interesting entries that branched off from one
another, fascinated by the world around us and how it worked.
And that's the way he lived his life -- with curiosity, exploring our planet, seeking to make
sense of it and explaining it to others. He went everywhere and he did everything. He raced
cars and boats; he traveled everywhere from the Amazon to the Arctic; he plunged 8,000 feet
below the sea, trekked 18,000 feet up into the Himalayas, and experienced weightlessness in
the upper reaches of our atmosphere -- all with one mission: to make it come alive for the
rest of us.
And as our world began to change, he helped us understand those changes. He was forever
there, reporting through world war and cold war; marches and milestones; scandal and
success; calmly and authoritatively telling us what we needed to know. He was a voice of
certainty in a world that was growing more and more uncertain. And through it all, he never
lost the integrity or the plainspoken speaking style that he gained growing up in the
heartland. He was a familiar and welcome voice that spoke to each and every one of us
personally.
So it may have seemed inevitable that he was named the most trusted man in America. But
here's the thing: That title wasn't bestowed on him by a network. We weren't told to believe
it by some advertising campaign. It was earned. It was earned by year after year and
decade after decade of painstaking effort; a commitment to fundamental values; his belief
that the American people were hungry for the truth, unvarnished and unaccompanied by
theatre or spectacle. He didn't believe in dumbing down. He trusted us.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
When he was told of this extraordinary honor that he was the most trusted man in America,
he naturally downplayed it by saying the people had not polled his wife. When people of both
political parties actually tried to recruit him to run for office, without even asking for his
stances on the issues, he said no -- to the relief of all potential opponents. And when, even a
decade and a half after his retirement, he still ranked first in seven of eight categories for
television journalists, he was disbelieving that he hadn't won the eighth category,
"attractiveness."
Through all the events that came to define the 20th century, through all our moments of
deepest hurt and brightest hope, Walter Cronkite was there, telling the story of the American
age.
And this is how we remember him today. But we also remember and celebrate the journalism
that Walter practiced -- a standard of honesty and integrity and responsibility to which so
many of you have committed your careers. It's a standard that's a little bit harder to find
today. We know that this is a difficult time for journalism. Even as appetites for news and
information grow, newsrooms are closing. Despite the big stories of our era, serious
journalists find themselves all too often without a beat. Just as the news cycle has shrunk, so
has the bottom line.
And too often, we fill that void with instant commentary and celebrity gossip and the softer
stories that Walter disdained, rather than the hard news and investigative journalism he
championed. "What happened today?" is replaced with "Who won today?" The public debate
cheapens. The public trust falters. We fail to understand our world or one another as well as
we should –- and that has real consequences in our own lives and in the life of our nation. We
seem stuck with a choice between what cuts to our bottom line and what harms us as a
society. Which price is higher to pay? Which cost is harder to bear?
"This democracy," Walter said, "cannot function without a reasonably well-informed
electorate." That's why the honest, objective, meticulous reporting that so many of you
pursue with the same zeal that Walter did is so vital to our democracy and our society: Our
future depends on it.
Walter was no naive idealist. He understood the challenges and the pressures and the
temptations facing journalism in this new era. He believed that a media company has an
obligation to pursue a profit, but also an obligation to invest a good chunk of that profit back
into news and public affairs. He was excited about all the stories that a high-tech world of
journalism would be able to tell, and all the newly-emerging means with which to tell it.
Naturally, we find ourselves wondering how he would have covered the monumental stories of
our time. In an era where the news that city hall is on fire can sweep around the world at the
speed of the Internet, would he still have called to double-check?

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Would he have been able to cut through the murky noise of the blogs and the tweets and the
sound bites to shine the bright light on substance? Would he still offer the perspective that
we value? Would he have been able to remain a singular figure in an age of dwindling
attention spans and omnipresent media?
And somehow, we know that the answer is yes. The simple values Walter Cronkite set out in
pursuit of -- to seek the truth, to keep us honest, to explore our world the best he could -they are as vital today as they ever were.
Our American story continues. It needs to be told. And if we choose to live up to Walter's
example, if we realize that the kind of journalism he embodied will not simply rekindle itself as
part of a natural cycle, but will come alive only if we stand up and demand it and resolve to
value it once again, then I'm convinced that the choice between profit and progress is a false
one -- and that the golden days of journalism still lie ahead.
Walter Cronkite invited a nation to believe in him -- and he never betrayed that trust. That's
why so many of you entered the profession in the first place. That's why the standards he set
for journalists still stand. And that's why he loved and valued all of you, but we loved and
valued Walter not only as the rarest of men, but as an indispensable pillar of our society.
He's reunited with his beloved Betsy now, watching the stories of this century unfold with
boundless optimism -- every so often punctuating the air with a gleeful "Oh, boy!" We are
grateful to him for altering and illuminating our time, and for the opportunity he gave to us to
say that, yes, we, too, were there.
Thank you very much.

Transcription by Michael E. Eidenmuller. Property of AmericanRhetoric.com Copyright ©2012. All rights reserved.

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329813" filename="Barack_Obama_-_West_Point_Commencement_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20West%20Point%20Commencement%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
Commencement Address at West Point Military Academy
delivered 22 May 2010, Michie Stadium, West Point, New York

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Good morning!
It is wonderful to be back at the United States Military Academy -- the oldest continuously
occupied military post in America -- as we commission the newest officers in the United States
Army.
Thank you, General Hagenbeck, for your introduction, on a day that holds special meaning for
you and the Dean, General Finnegan. Both of you first came to West Point in the Class of 1971
and went on to inspire soldiers under your command. You've led this Academy to a welldeserved recognition: best college in America. And today, you're both looking forward to a
well-deserved retirement from the Army. General Hagenbeck and Judy, General Finnegan and
Joan, we thank you for 39 years of remarkable service to the Army and to America.
To the Commandant, General Rapp, the Academy staff and faculty, most of whom are
veterans, thank you for your service and for inspiring these cadets to become the "leaders of
character" they are today. Let me also acknowledge the presence of General Shinseki,
Secretary McHugh, the members of Congress who are with us here today, including two
former soldiers this Academy knows well, Senator Jack Reed and Congressman Patrick
Murphy.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
To all the families here -- especially all the moms and dads -- this day is a tribute to you as
well. The decision to come to West Point was made by your sons and daughters, but it was
you who instilled in them a spirit of service that has led them to this hallowed place in a time
of war. So on behalf of the American people, thank you for your example and thank you for
your patriotism.
To the United States Corps of Cadets, and most of all, the Class of 2010 -- it is a singular
honor to serve as your Commander-in-Chief. As your Superintendent indicated, under our
constitutional system my power as President is wisely limited. But there are some areas where
my power is absolute. And so, as your Commander-in-Chief, I hereby absolve all cadets who
are on restriction for minor conduct offenses. I will leave the definition of "minor" -- to those
who know better.
Class of 2010, today is your day -- a day to celebrate all that you've achieved, in the finest
tradition of the soldier-scholar, and to look forward to the important service that lies ahead.
You have pushed yourself through the agony of Beast Barracks, the weeks of training in rain
and mud, and, I'm told, more inspections and drills than perhaps any class before you. Along
the way, I'm sure you faced a few moments when you asked yourself: "What am I doing
here?" I have those moments sometimes.
You've trained for the complexities of today's missions, knowing that success will be measured
not merely by performance on the battlefield, but also by your understanding of the cultures
and traditions and languages in the place where you serve.
You've reached out across borders, with more international experience than any class in
Academy history. You've not only attended foreign academies to forge new friendships, you've
welcomed into your ranks cadets from nearly a dozen countries.
You've challenged yourself intellectually in the sciences and the humanities, in history and
technology. You've achieved a standard of academic excellence that is without question, tying
the record for the most post-graduate scholarships of any class in West Point history.
This includes your number one overall cadet and your valedictorian -- Liz Betterbed and Alex
Rosenberg. And by the way, this is the first time in Academy history where your two top
awards have been earned by female candidates.
This underscores a fact that I've seen in the faces of our troops from Baghdad to Bagram -- in
the 21st century, our women in uniform play an indispensable role in our national defense.
And time and again, they have proven themselves to be role models for our daughters and
our sons -- as students and as soldiers and as leaders in the United States armed forces.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And the faces in this stadium show a simple truth: America's Army represents the full breadth
of America's experience. You come from every corner of our country -- from privilege and
from poverty, from cities and small towns. You worship all of the great religions that enrich
the life of our people. You include the vast diversity of race and ethnicity that is fundamental
to our nation's strength.
There is, however, one thing that sets you apart. Here in these quiet hills, you've come
together to prepare for the most difficult test of our time. You signed up knowing your service
would send you into harm's way, and you did so long after the first drums of war were
sounded. In you we see the commitment of our country, and timeless virtues that have served
our nation well.
We see your sense of duty -- including those who have earned their right shoulder patch -their right shoulder combat patches, like the soldier who suffered a grenade wound in Iraq,
yet still helped his fellow soldiers to evacuate -- your First Captain of the Corps of Cadets,
Tyler Gordy.
We see your sense of honor -- in your respect for tradition, knowing that you join a Long Grey
Line that stretches through the centuries; and in your reverence for each other, as when the
Corps stands in silence every time a former cadet makes the ultimate sacrifice for our nation.
Indeed, today we honor the 78 graduates of this Academy who have given their lives for our
freedom and our security in Iraq and Afghanistan.
And we see your love of country -- a devotion to America captured in the motto you chose as
a class, a motto which will guide your lives of service: "Loyal 'Til the End."
Duty. Honor. Love of country. Everything you have learned here, all that you've achieved
here, has prepared you for today -- when you raise your right hand; when you take that oath;
when your loved one or mentor pins those gold bars on your shoulders; when you become, at
long last, commissioned officers in the United States Army.
This is the ninth consecutive commencement that has taken place at West Point with our
nation at war. This time of war began in Afghanistan -- a place that may seem as far away
from this peaceful bend in the Hudson River as anywhere on Earth. The war began only
because our own cities and civilians were attacked by violent extremists who plotted from a
distant place, and it continues only because that plotting persists to this day.
For many years, our focus was on Iraq. And year after year, our troops faced a set of
challenges there that were as daunting as they were complex. A lesser Army might have seen
its spirit broken. But the American military is more resilient than that. Our troops adapted,
they persisted, they partnered with coalition and Iraqi counterparts, and through their
competence and creativity and courage, we are poised to end our combat mission in Iraq this
summer.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Even as we transition to an Iraqi lead and bring our troops home, our commitment to the Iraqi
people endures. We will continue to advise and assist Iraqi security forces, who are already
responsible for security in most of the country. And a strong American civilian presence will
help Iraqis forge political and economic progress. This will not be a simple task, but this is
what success looks like: an Iraq that provides no haven to terrorists; a democratic Iraq that is
sovereign and stable and self-reliant.
And as we end the war in Iraq, though, we are pressing forward in Afghanistan. Six months
ago, I came to West Point to announce a new strategy for Afghanistan and Pakistan. And I
stand here humbled by the knowledge that many of you will soon be serving in harm's way. I
assure you, you will go with the full support of a proud and grateful nation.
We face a tough fight in Afghanistan. Any insurgency that is confronted with a direct challenge
will turn to new tactics. And from Marja to Kandahar, that is what the Taliban has done
through assassination and indiscriminate killing and intimidation. Moreover, any country that
has known decades of war will be tested in finding political solutions to its problems, and
providing governance that can sustain progress and serve the needs of its people.
So this war has changed over the last nine years, but it's no less important than it was in
those days after 9/11. We toppled the Taliban regime -- now we must break the momentum
of a Taliban insurgency and train Afghan security forces. We have supported the election of a
sovereign government -- now we must strengthen its capacities. We've brought hope to the
Afghan people -- now we must see that their country does not fall prey to our common
enemies. Cadets, there will be difficult days ahead. We will adapt, we will persist, and I have
no doubt that together with our Afghan and international partners, we will succeed in
Afghanistan.
Now even as we fight the wars in front of us, we also have to see the horizon beyond these
wars -- because unlike a terrorist whose goal is to destroy, our future will be defined by what
we build. We have to see that horizon, and to get there we must pursue a strategy of national
renewal and global leadership. We have to build the sources of America's strength and
influence, and shape a world that's more peaceful and more prosperous.
Time and again, Americans have risen to meet and to shape moments of change. This is one
of those moments -- an era of economic transformation and individual empowerment; of
ancient hatreds and new dangers; of emerging powers and new global challenges. And we're
going to need all of you to help meet these challenges. You've answered the call. You, and all
who wear America's uniform, remain the cornerstone of our national defense, the anchor of
global security. And through a period when too many of our institutions have acted
irresponsibly, the American military has set a standard of service and sacrifice that is as great
as any in this nation's history.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now the rest of us -- the rest of us must do our part. And to do so, we must first recognize
that our strength and influence abroad begins with steps we take at home. We must educate
our children to compete in an age where knowledge is capital, and the marketplace is global.
We must develop clean energy that can power new industry and unbound us from foreign oil
and preserve our planet. We have to pursue science and research that unlocks wonders as
unforeseen to us today as the microchip and the surface of the moon were a century ago.
Simply put, American innovation must be the foundation of American power -- because at no
time in human history has a nation of diminished economic vitality maintained its military and
political primacy. And so that means that the civilians among us, as parents and community
leaders, elected officials, business leaders, we have a role to play. We cannot leave it to those
in uniform to defend this country -- we have to make sure that America is building on its
strengths.
As we build these economic sources of our strength, the second thing we must do is build and
integrate the capabilities that can advance our interests, and the common interests of human
beings around the world. America's armed forces are adapting to changing times, but your
efforts have to be complemented. We will need the renewed engagement of our diplomats,
from grand capitals to dangerous outposts. We need development experts who can support
Afghan agriculture and help Africans build the capacity to feed themselves. We need
intelligence agencies that work seamlessly with their counterparts to unravel plots that run
from the mountains of Pakistan to the streets of our cities. We need law enforcement that can
strengthen judicial systems abroad, and protect us here at home. And we need first
responders who can act swiftly in the event of earthquakes and storms and disease.
The burdens of this century cannot fall on our soldiers alone. It also cannot fall on American
shoulders alone. Our adversaries would like to see America sap its strength by overextending
our power. And in the past, we've always had the foresight to avoid acting alone. We were
part of the most powerful wartime coalition in human history through World War II. We
stitched together a community of free nations and institutions to endure and ultimately prevail
during a Cold War.
Yes, we are clear-eyed about the shortfalls of our international system. But America has not
succeeded by stepping out of the currents of cooperation -- we have succeeded by steering
those currents in the direction of liberty and justice, so nations thrive by meeting their
responsibilities and face consequences when they don't.
So we have to shape an international order that can meet the challenges of our generation.
We will be steadfast in strengthening those old alliances that have served us so well, including
those who will serve by your side in Afghanistan and around the globe. As influence extends
to more countries and capitals, we also have to build new partnerships, and shape stronger
international standards and institutions.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5

AmericanRhetoric.com
This engagement is not an end in itself. The international order we seek is one that can
resolve the challenges of our times -- countering violent extremism and insurgency; stopping
the spread of nuclear weapons and securing nuclear materials; combating a changing climate
and sustaining global growth; helping countries feed themselves and care for their sick;
preventing conflict and healing wounds. If we are successful in these tasks, that will lessen
conflicts around the world. It will be supportive of our efforts by our military to secure our
country.
More than anything else, though, our success will be claimed by who we are as a country. This
is more important than ever, given the nature of the challenges that we face. Our campaign to
disrupt, dismantle, and to defeat al Qaeda is part of an international effort that is necessary
and just.
But this is a different kind of war. There will be no simple moment of surrender to mark the
journey's end -- no armistice, no banner headline. Though we have had more success in
eliminating al Qaeda leaders in recent months than in recent years, they will continue to
recruit, and plot, and exploit our open society. We see that in bombs that go off in Kabul and
Karachi. We see it in attempts to blow up an airliner over Detroit or an SUV in Times Square,
even as these failed attacks show that pressure on networks like al Qaeda is forcing them to
rely on terrorists with less time and space to train. We see the potential duration of this
struggle in al Qaeda's gross distortions of Islam, their disrespect for human life, and their
attempt to prey upon fear and hatred and prejudice.
So the threat will not go away soon, but let's be clear: Al Qaeda and its affiliates are small
men on the wrong side of history. They lead no nation. They lead no religion. We need not
give in to fear every time a terrorist tries to scare us. We should not discard our freedoms
because extremists try to exploit them. We cannot succumb to division because others try to
drive us apart. We are the United States of America. We are the United States of America, and
we have repaired our union, and faced down fascism, and outlasted communism. We've gone
through turmoil, we've gone through Civil War, and we have come out stronger -- and we will
do so once more.
And I know this to be true because I see the strength and resilience of the American people.
Terrorists want to scare us. New Yorkers just go about their lives unafraid. Extremists want a
war between America and Islam, but Muslims are part of our national life, including those who
serve in our United States Army. Adversaries want to divide us, but we are united by our
support for you -- soldiers who send a clear message that this country is both the land of the
free and the home of the brave.
You know, in an age of instant access to information, a lot of cynicism in the news, it's easy to
lose perspective in a flood of pictures and the swirl of political debate. Power and influence can
seem to ebb and flow. Wars and grand plans can be deemed won or lost day to day, even
hour to hour.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 6

AmericanRhetoric.com
As we experience the immediacy of the image of a suffering child or the boasts of a prideful
dictator, it's easy to give in to the belief sometimes that human progress has stalled -- that
events are beyond our control, that change is not possible.
But this nation was founded upon a different notion. We believe, "that all men are created
equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights, that among
these are life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness." And that truth has bound us together, a
nation populated by people from around the globe, enduring hardship and achieving greatness
as one people. And that belief is as true today as it was 200 years ago. It is a belief that has
been claimed by people of every race and religion in every region of the world. Can anybody
doubt that this belief will be any less true -- any less powerful -- two years, two decades, or
even two centuries from now?
And so a fundamental part of our strategy for our security has to be America's support for
those universal rights that formed the creed of our founding. And we will promote these
values above all by living them -- through our fidelity to the rule of law and our Constitution,
even when it's hard; even when we're being attacked; even when we're in the midst of war.
And we will commit ourselves to forever pursuing a more perfect union. Together with our
friends and allies, America will always seek a world that extends these rights so that when an
individual is being silenced, we aim to be her voice. Where ideas are suppressed, we provide
space for open debate. Where democratic institutions take hold, we add a wind at their back.
When humanitarian disaster strikes, we extend a hand. Where human dignity is denied,
America opposes poverty and is a source of opportunity. That is who we are. That is what we
do.
We do so with no illusions. We understand change doesn't come quick. We understand that
neither America nor any nation can dictate every outcome beyond its borders. We know that a
world of mortal men and women will never be rid of oppression or evil. What we can do, what
we must do, is work and reach and fight for the world that we seek -- all of us, those in
uniform and those who are not.
And in preparing for today, I turned to the world -- to the words of Oliver Wendell Holmes.
And reflecting on his Civil War experience, he said, and I quote, "To fight out a war you must
believe in something and want something with all your might. So must you do to carry
anything else to an end worth reaching." Holmes went on, "More than that, you must be
willing to commit yourself to a course, perhaps a long and hard one, without being able to
foresee exactly where you will come out."
America does not fight for the sake of fighting. We abhor war. As one who has never
experienced the field of battle -- and I say that with humility, knowing, as General MacArthur
said, "The soldier above all others prays for peace" -- we fight because we must.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 7

AmericanRhetoric.com
We fight to keep our families and communities safe. We fight for the security of our allies and
partners, because America believes that we will be safer when our friends are safer; that we
will be stronger when the world is more just.
So cadets, a long and hard road awaits you. You go abroad because your service is
fundamental to our security back home. You go abroad as representatives of the values that
this country was founded upon. And when you inevitably face setbacks -- when the fighting is
fierce or a village elder is fearful; when the end that you are seeking seems uncertain -- think
back to West Point.
Here, in this peaceful part of the world, you have drilled and you have studied and come of
age in the footsteps of great men and women -- Americans who faced times of trial, and who
even in victory could not have foreseen the America they helped to build, the world they
helped to shape.
George Washington was able to free a band of patriots from the rule of an empire, but he
could not have foreseen his country growing to include 50 states connecting two oceans.
Grant was able to save a union and see the slaves freed, but he could not have foreseen just
how much his country would extend full rights and opportunities to citizens of every color.
Eisenhower was able to see Germany surrender and a former enemy grow into an ally, but he
could not have foreseen the Berlin Wall coming down without a shot being fired.
Today it is your generation that has borne a heavy burden -- soldiers, graduates of this
Academy like John Meyer and Greg Ambrosia who have braved enemy fire, protected their
units, carried out their missions, earned the commendation of this Army, and of a grateful
nation.
From the birth of our existence, America has had a faith in the future -- a belief that where
we're going is better than where we've been, even when the path ahead is uncertain. To fulfill
that promise, generations of Americans have built upon the foundation of our forefathers -finding opportunity, fighting injustice, forging a more perfect union. Our achievement would
not be possible without the Long Grey Line that has sacrificed for duty, for honor, for country.
And years from now when you return here, when for you the shadows have grown longer, I
have no doubt that you will have added your name to the book of history. I have no doubt
that we will have prevailed in the struggles of our times. I have no doubt that your legacy will
be an America that has emerged stronger, and a world that is more just, because we are
Americans, and our destiny is never written for us, it is written by us, and we are ready to
lead once more.
Thank you. May God bless you. And may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 8
</doc>
<doc id="file32329808" filename="Barack_Obama_-_White_House_Correspondents_Dinner_2010.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20White%20House%20Correspondents%20Dinner%202010.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
White House Correspondents' Dinner Address 2010
delivered 1 May 2010, Washington Hilton Hotel, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

Thank you so much, Ed. And to all the other board members; to honored guests; and to the
lovely First Lady. Good evening.
Ed is right, I work a lot. And so I wasn’t sure that I should actually come tonight. Biden
talked me into it. He leaned over and he said, "Mr. President -- this is no ordinary dinner.
This is a big [beep] meal."
It's been quite a year since I've spoken here last -- lots of ups, lots of downs -- except for my
approval ratings, which have just gone down. But that's politics. It doesn’t bother me. Beside
I happen to know that my approval ratings are still very high in the country of my birth.
And then just the other day, my dear friend, Hillary Clinton, pulled me aside and she gave me
a pep talk. She said, despite the numbers, she said, "Don't worry, Barack, you're likeable
enough." Which made me feel better.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Of course I may not have had the star power that I once had -- but in my defense, neither do
all of you.
People say to me, "Mr. President, you helped revive the banking industry, you saved GM and
Chrysler. What about the news business?" I have to explain, hey, I'm just the President. I'm
not a miracle worker, here.
Though I am glad that the only person whose ratings fell more than mine last year is here
tonight -- great to see you, Jay. I'm also glad that I'm speaking first, because we've all seen
what happens when somebody takes the time slot after Leno's.
Jay Leno: Goodnight, everybody.
President Obama: By the way, all of the jokes here tonight are brought to you by our
friends at Goldman Sachs. So you don't have to worry -- they make money whether you
laugh or not.
We do have a number of notable guests in attendance here tonight. Obviously I'm most
pleased that Michelle accompanied me. She doesn’t always go to these things. And there are
few things in life that are harder to find and more important to keep than love -- well, love
and a birth certificate.
The Jonas Brothers are here. They're out there somewhere. Sasha and Malia are huge fans.
But, boys, don't get any ideas. I have two words for you -- predator drones. You will never
see it coming. You think I'm joking.
Speaking of 'tween heartthrobs, Scott Brown is here. I admire Scott -- a rare politician in
Washington with nothing to hide. Now, you should be aware that Scott Brown is not the only
one with a salacious photo spread floating around. Recently David Axelrod was offered a
centerfold opportunity of his own -- now, I did not know that Krispy-Kreme had a catalog. But
it's true.
I saw Michael Steele backstage when we were taking pictures -- aka Notorious GOP. Michael,
who knows what truly plagues America today -- taxation without representin' -- my brother. I
did a similar routine last year, but it always works.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
Odds are that the Salahis are here. There haven't been people that were more unwelcome at
a party since Charlie Crist.
Unfortunately, John McCain couldn't make it. Recently he claimed that he had never identified
himself as a maverick. And we all know what happens in Arizona when you don't have ID.
Adios, amigos.
Look, I feel for John. You know, we were on the road together and obviously had a hardfought battle, and you learn, certainly at the national level, politics isn’t easy. This year I've
experienced my share of disappointments. For example, I had my heart set on the Nobel
Prize -- for Physics. But, hey, you can't win 'em all.
Speaking of undeserved honors, a few weeks ago I was able to throw out the first pitch at the
Nationals game. And I don't know if you saw it, but I threw it a little high and a little outside.
This is how FOX News covered it: "President panders to extreme left-wing of batter box." On
the other hand, MSNBC had a different take: "President pitches no-hitter." And then CNN went
a different way altogether. [Video shown about volcano eruption in Iceland.] I guess that's
why they're the most trusted name in news.
Now, look, I have a reputation for giving cable a hard time, so let's pick on Politico for a
while. You know, people attack Politico for putting a new focus on trivial issues, political
fodder, gossip sheet. That's not fair. Politico has been doing this for centuries now. Just
check out these headlines -- our researchers found these: "Japan surrenders -- where's the
bounce?" Then there's this one: "Lincoln saves Union, but can he save House majority?" I
don't know if you can see, there's a little portion there -- "He's lost the Southern white vote."
It's an astute analysis there.
And my favorite, July 3, 1776 -- "Senior Whig official: Talks break down, independence dead."
So this is nothing new. But even though the mainstream press gives me a hard time, I hear
that I'm still pretty big on Twitter, Facebook -- or as Sarah Palin calls it, "the socialized
media."

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Of course, that's not the only thing that we've been accused of socializing this year. You
might have heard we passed a health care bill and -- Is that Roger Ailes applauding out
there? Some Republicans have suggested that the bill contains a few secret provisions.
That's ridiculous. There aren’t a few secret provisions in the health care plan -- there are,
like, hundreds.
Tonight, in the interest of transparency, I'd like to share a couple. Let's see -- this provision
is called the Bay State of Denial. It reads: "This bill shall cover short-term memory loss
related to the passage of Massachusetts health care reform." So, good news, Mitt, your
condition is covered.
This next provision is called the Jersey Shore-Up. It reads: "The following individuals shall be
excluded from the indoor tanning tax within this bill." Snooki, J-WOWW, the Situation, and
House Minority Leader John Boehner.
This provision ought to put a common misperception to rest. It says right here: "If you do not
like the ruling of your death panel you can appeal."
Now, look, obviously I've learned this year politics can be a tough business, but there are
times where you just can't help but laugh. You know what really tickles me? Eric Massa.
Apparently Massa claimed that Rahm came up to him one day in the House locker room, stark
naked, started screaming obscenities at him -- to which I say, welcome to my world. I feel
you. It's a tense moment.
You know, even as we enjoy each other's company tonight, we're also mindful of the
incredible struggles of our fellow Americans in the Gulf Coast, both those leading the efforts to
stem this crisis and those along the coast whose livelihoods are in jeopardy as a result of the
spill.
Also in our thoughts and prayers tonight are the men and women in uniform who put their
lives at risk each and every day for our safety and freedom. So in that spirit, I'd also like to
pay a tribute to the journalists who play an extraordinary role in telling their stories.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4

AmericanRhetoric.com
Earlier today I gave the commencement address at Michigan, where I spoke to the graduates
about what is required to keep out democracy thriving in the 21st century. And one of the
points I made is that for all the changes and challenges facing your industry, this country
absolutely needs a healthy, vibrant media. 'Probably needs it more than ever now.
Today's technology -- today's technology has made it possible for us to get our news and
information from a growing range of sources. We can pick and choose not only our preferred
type of media, but also our preferred perspective. And while that exposes us to an
unprecedented array of opinions, analysis, and points of view, it also makes it that much more
important that we're all operating on a common baseline of facts. It makes it that much more
important that journalists out there seek only the truth.
And I don't have to tell you that. Some of you are seasoned veterans who have been on the
political beat for decades; others here tonight began their careers as bloggers not long ago.
But I think it's fair to say that every single reporter in this room believes deeply in the
enterprise of journalism. Every one of you, even the most cynical among you, understands
and cherishes the function of a free press and the preservation of our system of government
and of our way of life.
And I want you to know that for all the jokes and the occasional gripes, I cherish that work, as
well. In fact, tonight I wanted to present all of you with a bipartisan congressional resolution
that honors all those wonderful contributions that journalists have made to our country and
the world -- but, unfortunately, I couldn't break the filibuster.
Thank you very much, everybody.
God bless you and God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 5
</doc>
<doc id="file32329922" filename="Barack_Obama_-_White_House_Correspondents_Dinner_2011.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20White%20House%20Correspondents%20Dinner%202011.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
White House Correspondents Dinner 2011
delivered 30 April 2011, Washington, D.C.

AUTHENTICITY CERTIFIED: Text version below transcribed directly from audio

All right everybody, please have a seat.
My fellow Americans, Mahalo! It is wonderful to be here at the White House Correspondents’
Dinner. What a week. As some of you heard, the state of Hawaii released my official long-form
birth certificate.
Hopefully this puts all doubts to rest. But just in case there are any lingering questions,
tonight I’m prepared to go a step further. Tonight, for the first time, I am releasing my official
birth video.
Now, I warn you -- no one has seen this footage in 50 years, not even me. But let’s take a
look.
[Video rolls]

Oh, well. Back to square one. I want to make clear to the Fox News table: That was a
joke. That was not my real birth video. That was a children’s cartoon. Call Disney if you don't
believe me. They have the original long-form version.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Anyway, it’s good to be back with so many esteemed guests.
Celebrities. Senators. Journalists. Essential government employees. Non-essential government
employees. You know who you are.
I am very much looking forward to hearing Seth Meyers tonight. He’s a young, fresh face who
can do no wrong in the eyes of his fans. Seth, enjoy it while it lasts.
Yes, I think it is fair to say that when it comes to my presidency, the honeymoon is over. For
example, some people now suggest that I’m too professorial. And I’d like to address that
head-on, by assigning all of you some reading that will help you draw your own
conclusions. Others say that I'm arrogant. But I've found a really great self-help tool for
this: my poll numbers.
I’ve even let down my key core constituency: movie stars. Just the other day, Matt Damon -I love Matt Damon, love the guy -- Matt Damon said he was disappointed in my
performance. Well, Matt, I just saw “The Adjustment Bureau,” so -- right back atcha, buddy.
Of course, there’s someone who I can always count on for support: my wonderful wife
Michelle. We made a terrific team at the Easter Egg Roll this week. I’d give out bags of candy
to the kids, and she’d snatch them right back out of their little hands. Snatched them.
And where is the National Public Radio table? You guys are still here? That's good. I couldn’t
remember where we landed on that. Now, I know you were a little tense when the GOP tried
to cut your funding, but personally I was looking forward to new programming like “No Things
Considered” -- or “Wait, Wait…Don't Fund Me.”
Of course, the deficit is a serious issue. That's why Paul Ryan couldn’t be here tonight. His
budget has no room for laughter.
Michele Bachmann is here, though, I understand, and she is thinking about running for
President, which is weird because I hear she was born in Canada. Yes, Michele, this is how it
starts. Just letting you know.
Tim Pawlenty? He seems all American. But have you heard his real middle name? Tim “Hosni”
Pawlenty? What a shame.
My buddy, our outstanding ambassador, Jon Huntsman, is with us. Now, there’s something
you might not know about Jon. He didn’t learn to speak Chinese to go there. Oh, no. He
learned English to come here.
And then there’s a vicious rumor floating around that I think could really hurt Mitt Romney. I
heard he passed universal health care when he was governor of Massachusetts. Someone
should get to the bottom of that.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And I know just the guy to do it -- Donald Trump is here tonight! Now, I know that he’s taken
some flak lately, but no one is happier, no one is prouder to put this birth certificate matter to
rest than the Donald. And that’s because he can finally get back to focusing on the issues
that matter –- like, did we fake the moon landing? What really happened in Roswell? And
where are Biggie and Tupac?
But all kidding aside, obviously, we all know about your credentials and breadth of
experience. For example -- no, seriously, just recently, in an episode of Celebrity Apprentice - at the steakhouse, the men’s cooking team cooking did not impress the judges from Omaha
Steaks. And there was a lot of blame to go around. But you, Mr. Trump, recognized that the
real problem was a lack of leadership. And so ultimately, you didn’t blame Lil’ Jon or
Meatloaf. You fired Gary Busey. And these are the kind of decisions that would keep me up at
night. Well handled, sir. Well handled.
Say what you will about Mr. Trump, he certainly would bring some change to the White
House. Let’s see what we’ve got up there.

So, yes, this has been quite a year in politics, but also in the movies. Many people, for
instance, were inspired by the King’s Speech. It’s a wonderful film. Well, some of you may not
know this, but there's now a sequel in the works that touches close to home. And because this
is a Hollywood crowd, tonight I can offer a sneak peek. So can we show the trailer, please?
[Video rolls]

Coming to a theater near you.
Let me close on a serious note. We are having a good time, but as has been true for the last
several years, we have incredible young men and women who are serving in uniform overseas
in the most extraordinary of circumstances. And we are reminded of their courage and their
valor.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
We also need to remember our neighbors in Alabama and across the South that have been
devastated by terrible storms from last week. Michelle and I were down there yesterday, and
we’ve spent a lot of time with some of the folks who have been affected. The devastation is
unimaginable and is heartbreaking and it’s going to be a long road back. And so we need to
keep those Americans in our thoughts and in our prayers. But we also need to stand with
them in the hard months and perhaps years to come.
I intend to make sure that the federal government does that. And I’ve got faith that the
journalists in this room will do their part for the people who have been affected by this
disaster -- by reporting on their progress, and letting the rest of America know when they will
need more help. Those are stories that need telling. And that’s what all of you do best,
whether it’s rushing to the site of a devastating storm in Alabama, or braving danger to cover
a revolution in the Middle East.
You know, in the last months, we’ve seen journalists threatened, arrested, beaten, attacked,
and in some cases even killed simply for doing their best to bring us the story, to give people
a voice, and to hold leaders accountable. And through it all, we’ve seen daring men and
women risk their lives for the simple idea that no one should be silenced, and everyone
deserves to know the truth.
That’s what you do. At your best that's what journalism is. That’s the principle that you
uphold. It is always important, but it’s especially important in times of challenge, like the
moment that America and the world is facing now.
So I thank you for your service and the contributions that you make. And I want to close by
recognizing not only your service, but also to remember those that have been lost as a
consequence of the extraordinary reporting that they’ve done over recent weeks. They help,
too, to defend our freedoms and allow democracy to flourish.
God bless you, and may God bless the United States of America.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329657" filename="Barack_Obama_-_White_House_Correspondents_Dinner_First.pdf" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/PDFFiles/Barack%20Obama%20-%20White%20House%20Correspondents%20Dinner%20First.pdf">
AmericanRhetoric.com
Barack Obama
First White House Correspondents Dinner Address

Delivered 9 May 2009, Washington Hilton Hotel, D.C.

Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Good evening. You know, I had an entire speech prepared
for this wonderful occasion, but now that I'm here I think I'm going to try something a little
different. Tonight I want to speak from the heart. I'm going to speak off the cuff.
[Teleprompters rise.]
Good evening. Pause for laughter. Wait a minute, this may not be working as well as I -- Let
me try that again.
Good evening, everybody. I would like to welcome you all to the 10-day anniversary of my
first 100 days. I am Barack Obama. Most of you covered me. All of you voted for me.
Apologies to the Fox table. They're -- Where are they? I have to confess I really did not want
to be here tonight, but I knew I had to come -- just one more problem that I've inherited from
George W. Bush.
But now that I'm here, it's great to be here. It's great to see all of you. Michelle Obama is
here, the First Lady of the United States. Hasn't she been an outstanding First Lady? She's
even begun to bridge the differences that have divided us for so long, because no matter
which party you belong to we can all agree that Michelle has the right to bare arms.
Now Sasha and Malia aren't here tonight because they're grounded. You can't just take Air
Force One on a joy ride to Manhattan. I don't care whose kids you are. We've been setting
some ground rules here. They're starting to get a little carried away.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 1

AmericanRhetoric.com
Now, speaking -- when I think about children obviously I think about Michelle and it reminds
me that tomorrow is Mother's Day. Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers in the audience. I
do have to say, though, that this is a tough holiday for Rahm Emanuel because he's not used
to saying the word "day" after "mother." That's true.
David Axelrod is here. You know, David and I have been together for a long time. I can still
remember -- I got to sort of -- I tear up a little bit when I think back to that day that I called
Ax so many years ago and said, you and I can do wonderful things together. And he said to
me the same thing that partners all across America are saying to one another right now: Let's
go to Iowa and make it official.
Michael Steele is in the house tonight. Or as he would say, "in the heezy." What's up? Where
is Michael? Michael, for the last time, the Republican Party does not qualify for a bailout. Rush
Limbaugh does not count as a troubled asset, I'm sorry.
Dick Cheney was supposed to be here but he is very busy working on his memoirs, tentatively
titled, "How to Shoot Friends and Interrogate People."
You know, it's been a whirlwind of activity these first hundred days. We've enacted a major
economic recovery package, we passed a budget, we forged a new path in Iraq, and no
President in history has ever named three Commerce Secretaries this quickly. Which reminds
me, if Judd Gregg is here, your business cards are ready now.
On top of that, I've also reversed the ban on stem cell research, signed an expansion -signed an expansion of the children's health insurance. Just last week, Car and Driver named
me auto executive of the year. Something I'm very proud of.
We've also begun to change the culture in Washington. We've even made the White House a
place where people can learn and can grow. Just recently, Larry Summers asked if he could
chair the White House Council on Women and Girls. And I do appreciate that Larry is here
tonight because it is seven hours past his bedtime. Gibbs liked that one.
In the last hundred days, we've also grown the Democratic Party by infusing it with new
energy and bringing in fresh, young faces like Arlen Specter. Now, Joe Biden rightly deserves
a lot of credit for convincing Arlen to make the switch, but Secretary Clinton actually had a lot
to do with it too. One day she just pulled him aside and she said, Arlen, you know what I
always say -- "if you can't beat them, join them."
Which brings me to another thing that's changed in this new, warmer, fuzzier White House,
and that's my relationship with Hillary. You know, we had been rivals during the campaign,
but these days we could not be closer. In fact, the second she got back from Mexico she
pulled into a hug and gave me a big kiss. Told me I'd better get down there myself. Which I
really appreciated. I mean, it was -- it was nice.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 2

AmericanRhetoric.com
And of course we've also begun to change America's image in the world. We talked about this
during this campaign and we're starting to execute. We've renewed alliances with important
partners and friends. If you look on the screen there, there I am with Japanese Prime Minister
Taro Aso. There I am with Gordon Brown.
But as I said during the campaign, we can't just talk to our friends. As hard as it is, we also
have to talk to our enemies, and I've begun to do exactly that. Take a look at the monitor
there. Now, let me be clear, just because he handed me a copy of Peter Pan does not mean
that I'm going to read it -- but it's good diplomatic practice to just accept these gifts.
All this change hasn't been easy. Change never is. So I've cut the tension by bringing a new
friend to the White House. He's warm, he's cuddly, loyal, enthusiastic. You just have to keep
him on a tight leash. Every once in a while he goes charging off in the wrong direction and
gets himself into trouble. But enough about Joe Biden.
All in all, we're proud of the change we've brought to Washington in these first hundred days
but we've got a lot of work left to do, as all of you know. So I'd like to talk a little bit about
what my administration plans to achieve in the next hundred days.
During the second hundred days, we will design, build and open a library dedicated to my first
hundred days. It's going to be big, folks. In the next hundred days, I will learn to go off the
prompter and Joe Biden will learn to stay on the prompter.
In the next hundred days, our bipartisan outreach will be so successful that even John
Boehner will consider becoming a Democrat. After all, we have a lot in common. He is a
person of color. Although not a color that appears in the natural world. What's up, John?
In the next hundred days, I will meet with a leader who rules over millions with an iron fist,
who owns the airwaves and uses his power to crush all who would challenge his authority at
the ballot box. It's good to see you, Mayor Bloomberg.
In the next hundred days, we will housetrain our dog, Bo, because the last thing Tim Geithner
needs is someone else treating him like a fire hydrant. In the next hundred days, I will
strongly consider losing my cool.
Finally, I believe that my next hundred days will be so successful I will be able to complete
them in 72 days. And on the 73rd day, I will rest.
I just -- I want to end by saying a few words about the men and women in this room whose
job it is to inform the public and pursue the truth. You know, we meet tonight at a moment of
extraordinary challenge for this nation and for the world, but it's also a time of real hardship
for the field of journalism. And like so many other businesses in this global age, you've seen
sweeping changes and technology and communications that lead to a sense of uncertainty and
anxiety about what the future will hold.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 3

AmericanRhetoric.com
Across the country, there are extraordinary, hardworking journalists who have lost their jobs
in recent days, recent weeks, recent months. And I know that each newspaper and media
outlet is wrestling with how to respond to these changes, and some are struggling simply to
stay open. And it won't be easy. Not every ending will be a happy one.
But it's also true that your ultimate success as an industry is essential to the success of our
democracy. It's what makes this thing work. You know, Thomas Jefferson once said that if he
had the choice between a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a
government, he would not hesitate to choose the latter.
Clearly, Thomas Jefferson never had cable news to contend with -- but his central point
remains: A government without newspapers, a government without a tough and vibrant
media of all sorts, is not an option for the United States of America.
So I may not -- I may not agree with everything you write or report. I may even complain, or
more likely Gibbs will complain, from time to time about how you do your jobs, but I do so
with the knowledge that when you are at your best, then you help me be at my best. You help
all of us who serve at the pleasure of the American people do our jobs better by holding us
accountable, by demanding honesty, by preventing us from taking shortcuts and falling into
easy political games that people are so desperately weary of.
And that kind of reporting is worth preserving -- not just for your sake, but for the public's.
We count on you to help us make sense of a complex world and tell the stories of our lives the
way they happen, and we look for you for truth, even if it's always an approximation, even if This is a season of renewal and reinvention. That is what government must learn to do, that's
what businesses must learn to do, and that's what journalism is in the process of doing. And
when I look out at this room and think about the dedicated men and women whose questions
I've answered over the last few years, I know that for all the challenges this industry faces,
it's not short on talent or creativity or passion or commitment. It's not short of young people
who are eager to break news or the not-so-young who still manage to ask the tough ones
time and time again. These qualities alone will not solve all your problems, but they certainly
prove that the problems are worth solving. And that is a good place as any to begin.
So I offer you my thanks, I offer you my support, and I look forward to working with you and
answering to you and the American people as we seek a more perfect union in the months
and years ahead.
Thank you very much, everybody.
Thank you.

AmericanRhetoric.com

Page 4
</doc>
<doc id="file32329476" filename="www.americanrhetoric.com" parent_folder="obama" url="https://www.americanrhetoric.com/">
<p> Database of and index to 5000+ full text, audio, and video versions of public speeches, sermons, legal proceedings, lectures, debates, interviews, other recorded media events, and a declaration or two. </p>
<p> Index links alphabetized by first name. Available mediums flagged with [T] (text), [A] (audio), [V] (video). </p>
<p> Full text, audio, and video database of the 100 most significant American political speeches of the 20th century, according to 137 leading scholars of American public address, as compiled by Stephen E. Lucas (University of Wisconsin-Madison) and Martin J. Medhurst (Baylor University). Discover who made the cut and experience the power of rhetorical eloquence in this provocative list of "who's who" in American public address. </p>
<p> Full text, audio and video database of some 275+ Hollywood movie speeches. </p>
<p> Included are military movie speeches, sports-oriented movie speeches, forensic movie speeches, and social-political movie speeches, among others. </p>
<p> 200+ short audio and video clips illustrating stylistic figures of speech ranging from alliteration to synecdoche. Clips are taken from speeches, movies, sermons, and sensational media events and delivered by politicians, actors, preachers, athletes, and other notable personalities. </p>
</doc>
